NEC-2 Manual, Part III: User’s Guide
Microsoft Word 6.0 version,
including all Figures, ready for printing, and incorporating many corrections, of the html version of the NEC-2 Manual at <http://www.traveller.com/~richesop/nec/>
Table of Contents
Section	Page
     LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS	3
     Preface	4
     Disclaimer for the Web and Microsoft Word Versions	5
     Abstract	5
I. INTRODUCTION	6
II. STRUCTURE MODELING GUIDELINES	7
       1. Wire Modeling	7
       2. Surface Modeling	10
       3. Modeling Structures Over Ground	13
III. PROGRAM INPUT	15
       1. Comment Cards (CM, CE)	15
       2. Structure Geometry Input Cards	16
             + Wire Arc Specification (GA)	16
             + End Geometry Input (GE)	17
             + Read Numerical Green’s Function File (GF)	19
             + Helix/Spiral Specification (GH)	20
             + Coordinate Transformation (GM)	21
             + Generate Cylindrical Structure (GR)	23
             + Scale Structure Dimensions (GS)	25
             + Wire Specification (GW)	26
             + Reflection in Coordinate Planes (GX)	28
             + Surface Patch (SP)	30
             + Multiple Patch Surface (SM)	34
             + Examples of Structure Geometry Data	36
                  - Rhombic Antenna - No Symmetry	36
                  - Rhombic Antenna - Plane Symmetry, 2 Planes	37
                  - Rhombic Antenna - Plane Symmetry, 1 Plane	38
                  - Two Coaxial Rings	39
                  - Linear Antenna over a Wire Grid Plate	40
                  - Cylinder with Attached Wires	41
       3. Program Control Cards	43
             + Maximum Coupling Calculation (CP)	45
             + Extended Thin-Wire Kernel (EK)	46
             + End of Run (EN)	47
             + Excitation (EX)	48
             + Frequency (FR)	52
             + Additional Ground Parameters (GD)	53
             + Ground Parameters (GN)	55
             + Interaction Approximation Range (KH)	57
             + Loading (LD)	58
             + Near Fields (NE, NH)	60
             + Networks (NT)	62
             + Next Structure (NX)	65
             + Print Control for Charge on Wires (PQ)	66
             + Page Title / Print Control for Current on Wires (PT)	67
             + Radiation Pattern (RP)	69
             + Transmission Line (TL)	73
             + Write NGF File (WG)	75
             + Execute (XQ)	76
       4. SOMNEC Input for Sommerfeld/Norton Ground Method	77
       5. The Numerical Green's Function Option	78
IV. NEC OUTPUT	80
       o Examples 1 through 4	82
           + Example 1, Center-Fed Linear Antenna: Model, Results	83
           + Example 2, Center-Fed Linear Antenna: Model, Results	86
           + Example 3, Vert. Antenna Over Ground: Model, Results	91
           + Example 4, T Ant. on Box over Perfect Ground: Model, Results	96
       o Example 5: Log-Periodic Antenna	100
           + Model, Results	100, 101
       o Example 6: Cylinder with Attached Wires	106
           + Model, Results	106
       o Examples 7 & 8: Scattering by a Wire / Aircraft	114
           + Model, Results	114
       o Example 9: Scattering by a Sphere	(n/a)
       o Example 10: Monopole on Radial Wire Ground Screen	(n/a)
V.    EXECUTION TIME	118
       o Benchmark Times on Various Platforms	118
       o “TEST299” Benchmark Input Data File	121
VI.   DIFFERENCES BETWEEN NEC-2, NEC-1, AND AMP2	122
VII.  FILE STORAGE REQUIREMENTS	123
VIII. ERROR MESSAGES	125
      REFERENCES	130
      Contributors to the Web Edition of this Manual	131

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

Figure	Page
   1 Patch Position and Orientation	10
   2 Connection of a Wire to a Surface Patch	11
   3 Patch Models for a Sphere	12
   4 Bistatic RCS of a Sphere with ka = 5.3
       (a) Uniform segmentation	12
       (b) Variable segmentation	13
   5 Surface Patch Option (5a, 5b, 5c, 5d)	31, 32, 32, 32
   6 Rectangular Surface Covered by Multiple Patches	34
   7 Rhombic Antenna - No Symmetry	36
   8 Rhombic Antenna - 2 Planes of Symmetry	37
   9 Rhombic Antenna - 1 Plane of Symmetry	38
  10 Coaxial Rings	39
  11 Wire Grid Plate and Dipole	40
  12 Development of Surface Model for Cylinder with Attached Wires	41
  13 Segmentation of Cylinder for Wires Connected to End and Side	42
  14 Specification of Incident Wave	50
  15 Orientation of Current Element	50
  16 Parameters for a Second Ground Medium	53
  17 Segment Loaded by Means of a 2-Port Network	63
  18 Coordinates for Radiated Field	70
  19 Stick Model of Aircraft	114
Preface

The Numerical Electromagnetics Code (NEC) has been developed at the
Lawrence Livermore Laboratory, Livermore, California, under the sponsorship
of the Naval Ocean Systems Center and the Air Force Weapons Laboratory. It
is an advanced version of the Antenna Modeling Program (AMP) developed in
the early 1970's by MBAssociates for the Naval Research Laboratory, Naval
Ship Engineering Center, U.S. Army ECOM/Communications Systems, U.S. Army
Strategic Communications Command, and Rome Air Development Center under
Office of Naval Research Contract N00014-71-C-0187. The present version of
NEC is the result of efforts by G. J. Burke and A. J. Poggio of Lawrence
Livermore Laboratory.

The documentation for NEC consists of three volumes:

Part I:   NEC Program Description - Theory
Part II:  NEC Program Description - Code
Part III: NEC User's Guide

The documentation has been prepared by using the AMP documents as
foundations and by modifying those as needed. In some cases this led to
minor changes in the original documents while in many cases major
modifications were required.

Over the years many individuals have been contributors to AMP and NEC and
are acknowledged here as follows:

   * R. W. Adams
   * J. N. Brittingham
   * G. J. Burke
   * F. J. Deadrick
   * K. K. Hazard
   * D. L. Knepp
   * D. L. Lager
   * R. J. Lytle
   * E. K. Miller
   * J. B. Morton
   * G. M. Pjerrou
   * A. J. Poggio
   * E. S. Selden

The support for the development of NEC-2 at the Lawrence Livermore
Laboratory has been provided by the Naval Ocean Systems Center under
MIPR-N0095376MP. Cognizant individuals under whom this project was carried
out include:

   * J. Rockway
   * J. Logan

Previous development of NEC also included the support of the Air Force
Weapons Laboratory (Project Order 76-090) and was monitored by J. Castillo
and TSgt. H. Goodwin.

Work was performed under the auspices of the U. S. Department of Energy by the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory under contract No. W-7405-Eng-48.  Reference to a company or product name does not imply approval or recommendation of the product by the University of California or the U. S. Department of Energy to the exclusion of others that may be suitable.
Disclaimer for the Web and Microsoft Word Versions
This manual was originally prepared as an account of work sponsored by the United States Government.  Neither the United States nor the United States Department of Energy, nor any of their employees, nor any of their contractors, subcontractors, or their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately-owned rights.

The Web (html) and Microsoft Word (WDBN) versions of this manual were derived from the original, printed version by uncompensated volunteers, through optical scanning and automatic character recognition (OCR), retyping, reformatting and other editing (see page 131).  These processes have inevitably introduced errors and omissions, for which the United States Government, Lawrence Liver­more National Laboratory and University of California have no responsibility.  No assurance is made by anyone as to the completeness, accuracy, or suitability for any purpose of any version of this manual.

Users should be particularly alert for errors of the sort that occur frequently with OCR, e.g., missed decimal points and minus signs; confusion of the numeral “1”, the lower-case letter “l”, and the upper-case letter “I”; misalignment of columns in card images due to miscounting of spaces; and incorrect word substi­tution by automatic spell-checking programs.
Abstract
The Numerical Electromagnetics code (NEC-2) is a computer code for analyzing
the electromagnetic response of an arbitrary structure consisting of wires
and surfaces in free space or over a ground plane. The analysis is
accomplished by the numerical solution of integral equations for induced
currents. The excitation may be an incident plane wave or a voltage source
on a wire, while the output may include current and charge density, electric
or magnetic field in the vicinity of the structure, and radiated fields.
NEC-2 includes several features not contained in NEC-1, including an
accurate method for modeling grounds, based on the Sommerfeld integrals, and
an option to modify a structure without repeating the complete solution.

This manual contains instruction for use of the Code, including preparation
of input data and interpretation of the output. Examples are included that
show typical input and output and illustrate many of the special options
available in NEC-2 [text missing?] covering the equations and details of the coding, are referenced.
Section I - Introduction

The Numerical Electromagnetics Code (NEC-2) is a user-oriented computer code
for analysis of the electromagnetic response of antennas and other metal
structures. It is built around the numerical solution of integral equations
for the currents induced on the structure by sources or incident fields.
This approach avoids many of the simplifying assumptions required by other
solution methods and provides a highly accurate and versatile tool for
electromagnetic analysis.

The code combines an integral equation for smooth surfaces with one
specialized for wires to provide for convenient and accurate modeling of a
wide range of structures. A model may include nonradiating networks and
transmission lines connecting parts of the structure, perfect or imperfect
conductors, and lumped element loading. A structure may also be modeled over
a ground plane that may be either a perfect or imperfect conductor.

The excitation may be either voltage sources on the structure or an incident
plane wave of linear or elliptic polarization. The output may include
induced currents and charges, near electric or magnetic fields, and radiated
fields. Hence, the program is suited to either antenna analysis or
scattering and EMP studies.

The integral equation approach is best suited to structures with dimensions
up to several wavelengths. Although there is no theoretical size limit, the
numerical solution requires a matrix equation of increasing order as the
structure size is increased relative to wavelength. Hence, modeling very
large structures may require more computer time and file storage than is
practical on a particular machine. In such cases standard high-frequency
approximations such as geometrical optics, physical optics, or geometrical
theory of diffraction may be more suitable than the integral equation
approach used in NEC-2.

NEC-2 retains all features of the earlier version NEC-1 except for a restart
option. Major additions in NEC-2 are the Numerical Green's Function for
partitioned-matrix solution and a treatment for lossy grounds that is
accurate for antennas very close to the ground surface. NEC-2 also includes
an option to compute maximum coupling between antennas and new options for
structure input.

This manual contains instructions for use of the NEC-2 code and sample runs
to illustrate the output. The sample runs may also be used as a standard to
check the operation of a newly duplicated or modified deck. There are two
other manuals for NEC-2: Part I: NEC Program Description - Theory (ref. l);
and Part II: NEC Program Description - Code (ref. 2). Part I covers the
equations and numerical methods, and Part II is a detailed description of
the FORTRAN code.

Section II - Structure Modeling Guidelines

The basic devices for modeling structures with the NEC code are short,
straight segments for modeling wires and flat patches for modeling surfaces.
An antenna and any other conducting objects in its vicinity that affect its
performance must be modeled with strings of segments following the paths of
wires and with patches covering surfaces. Proper choice of the segments and
patches for a model is the most critical step to obtaining accurate results.
The number of segments and patches should be the minimum required for
accuracy, however, since the program running time increases rapidly a this
number increases. Guidelines for choosing segments and patches are given
below and should be followed carefully by anyone using the NEC code.
Experience gained by using the code will also aid the user in developing
models.

1. Wire Modeling

A wire segment is defined by the coordinates of its two end points and its
radius. Modeling a wire structure with segments involves both geometrical
and electrical factors. Geometrically, the segments should follow the paths
of conductors as closely as possible, using a piece-wise linear fit on
curves.

The main electrical consideration is segment length Delta relative to the
wavelength Lambda. Generally, Delta should be less than about 0.l Lambda at
the desired frequency. Somewhat longer segments may be acceptable on long
wires with no abrupt changes while shorter segments, 0.05 Lambda or less,
may be needed in modeling critical regions of an antenna. The size of the
segments determines the resolution in solving for the current on the model
since the current is computed at the center of each segment. Extremely short
segments, less than about 10-3 Lambda, should also be avoided since the
similarity of the constant and cosine components of the current expansion
leads to numerical inaccuracy.

The wire radius, a, relative to Lambda is limited by the approximations used
in the kernel of the electric field integral equation. Two approximation
options are available in NEC: the thin-wire kernel and the extended
thin-wire kernel. These are discussed in reference 1. In the thin-wire
kernel, the current on the surface of a segment is reduced to a filament of
current on the segment axis. In the extended thin-wire kernel, a current
uniformly distributed around the segment surface is assumed. The field of
the current is approximated by the first two terms in a series expansion of
the exact field in powers of a2. The first term in the series, which is
independent of a, is identical to the thin-wire kernel while the second term
extends the accuracy for larger values of a. Higher order approximation are
not used because they would require excessive computation time.

In either of these approximations, only currents in the axial direction on a
segment are considered, and there is no allowance for variation of the
current around the wire circumference. The acceptability of these
approximations depends on both the value of a/Lambda and the tendency of the
excitation to produce circumferential current or current variation. Unless
2Pi a/Lambda is much less than 1, the validity of these approximations
should be considered.

The accuracy of the numerical solution for the dominant axial current is
also dependent on Delta/a. Small values of Delta/a may result in extraneous
oscillations in the computed current near free wire ends, voltage sources,
or lumped loads. Use of the extended thin-wire kernel will extend the limit
on Delta/a to smaller values than are permissible with the normal thin-wire
kernel. Studies of the computed field on a segment due to its own current
have shown that with the thin-wire kernel, Delta/a must be greater than
about 8 for errors of less than 1%. With the extended thin-wire kernel,
Delta/a may be as small as 2 for the same accuracy (ref. 3). In the current
solution with either of these kernels, the error tends to be less than for a
single field evaluation. Reasonable current solutions have been obtained
with the thin-wire kernel for Delta/a down to about 2 and with the extended
thin-wire kernel for Delta/a down to 0.5. When a model includes segments
with Delta/a less than about 2, the extended thin-wire kernel option should
be used by inclusion of an EK card in the data deck.

When the extended thin-wire kernel option is selected, it is used at free
wire ends and between parallel, connected segments. The normal thin-wire
kernel is always used at bends in wires, however. Hence, segments with small
Delta/a should be avoided at bends. Use of a small Delta/a at a bend, which
results in the center of one segment falling within the radius of the other
segment, generally leads to severe error.

The current expansion used in NEC enforces conditions on the current and
charge density along wires, at junctions, and at wire ends. For these
conditions to be applied properly, segments that are electrically connected
must have coincident end points. If segments intersect other than at their
ends, the NEC code will not allow current to flow from one segment to the
other. Segments will be treated as connected if the separation of their ends
is less than about 10-3 times the length of the shortest segment. When
possible, however, identical coordinates should be used for connected
segment ends.

The angle of the intersection of wire segments in NEC is not restricted in
any manner. In fact, the acute angle may be so small as to place the
observation point on one wire segment within the volume of another wire
segment. Numerical studies have shown that such overlapping leads to
meaningless results; thus, as a minimum, one must ensure that the angle is
large enough to prevent overlaps. Even with such care, the details of the
current distribution near the intersection may not be reliable even though
the results for the current may be accurate at distances from this region.

NEC includes a patch option for modeling surfaces using the magnetic-field
integral equation. This formulation is restricted to closed surfaces with
nonvanishing enclosed volume. For example, it is not theoretically
applicable to a conducting plate of zero thickness and, actually, the
numerical algorithm is not practical for thin bodies (such as solar panels).
The latter difficulty is due to the possibility of poor conditioning of the
matrix equation.

Wire-grid modeling of conducting surfaces has been used with varying
success. The earliest applications to the computation of radar cross
sections and radiation patterns provided reasonably accurate results. Even
computations for the input impedance of antennas driven against grid models
of surfaces have oftentimes exhibited good agreement with experiments.
However, broad and generalized guidelines for near-field quantities have not
been developed, and the use of wire-grid modeling for near-field parameters
should be approached with caution. A single wire grid, however, may
represent both surfaces of a thin conducting plate. The current on the grid
will be the sum of the currents that would flow on opposite sites of the
plate. While information on the currents on the individual surfaces is lost
the grid will yield the correct radiated fields.

Other rules for the segment model follow:

   * Segments (or patches) may not overlap since the division of current
     between two overlapping segments is indeterminate. Overlapping segments
     may result in a singular matrix equation.

   * A large radius change between connected segments may decrease accuracy;
     particularly, with small Delta/a. The problem may be reduced by making
     the radius change in steps over several segments.

   * A segment is required at each point where a network connection or
     voltage source will be located. This may seem contrary to the idea of
     an excitation gap as a break in a wire. A continuous wire across the
     gap is needed, however, so that the required voltage drop can be
     specified as a boundary condition.

   * The two segments on each side of a charge density discontinuity voltage
     source should be parallel and have the same length and radius. When
     this source is at the base of a segment connected to a ground plane.
     the segment should be vertical.

   * The number of wires joined at a single junction cannot exceed 30
     because of a dimension limitation in the code.

   * When wires are parallel and very close together, the segments should be
     aligned to avoid incorrect current perturbation from offset match point
     and segment junctions.

   * Although extensive tests have not been conducted, it is safe to specify
     that wires should be several radii apart.
2. Surface Modeling

A conducting surface is modeled by means of multiple, small flat surface
patches corresponding to the segments used to model wires. The patches are
chosen to cover completely the surface to be modeled, conforming as closely
as possible to curved surfaces. The parameters defining a surface patch are
the Cartesian coordinates of the patch center, the components of the
outward-directed, unit normal vector and the patch area. These are
illustrated in Figure 1 where r0 = x0 ^x + y0 ^y + z0 ^z is the position of
the segment center; ^n = nx ^x + ny ^y + nz ^z is the unit normal vector and
A is the patch area.


Figure 1. Patch Position and Orientation

Although the shape (square, rectangular, etc.) may be used to define a patch
on input it does not affect the solution since there is no integration over
the patch unless a wire is connected to the patch center. The program
computes the surface current on each patch along the orthogonal unit vectors
^t1 and ^t2, which are tangent to the surface. The vector ^t1 is parallel to
a side of the triangular, rectangular, or quadrilateral patch. For a patch
of arbitrary shape, it is chosen by the following rules:

For a horizontal patch,

        ^t1 = ^x .
For a non horizontal patch,

        ^t1 =  ( ^z X ^n ) / | ^z X ^n | ,

^t2 is then chosen as ^t2 = ^n X ^t1. When a structure having plane symmetry
is formed by reflection in a coordinate plane using a GX input card, the
vectors ^t1, ^t2 and ^n are also reflected so that the new patches will have
^t2 = -^n X ^t1. When a wire is connected to a surface, the wire must end at
the center of a patch with identical coordinates used for the wire end and
the patch center. The program then divides the patch into four equal patches
about the wire end as shown in Figure 2, where a wire has been connected to
the second of three previously identical patches. The connection patch is
divided along lines defined by the vectors ^t1 and ^t2 for that patch, with a
square patch assumed. The four new patches are ordinary patches like those
input by the user, except when the interactions between the patches and the
lowest segment on the connected wire are computed. In this case an
interpolation function is applied to the four patches to represent the
current from the wire onto the surface, and the function is numerically
integrated over the patches. Thus, the shape of the patch is significant in
this case. The user should try to choose patches so that those with wires
connected are approximately square with sides parallel to ^t1 and ^t2. The
connected wire is not required to be normal to the patch but cannot lie in
the plane of the patch. Only a single wire may connect to a given patch and
a segment may have a patch connection on only one of its ends. Also, a wire
may never connect to a patch formed by subdividing another patch for a
previous connection.


Figure 2. Connection of a Wire to a Surface Patch.

As with wire modeling, patch size measured in wavelengths is very important
for accuracy of the results. A minimum of about 25 patches should be used
per square wavelength of surface area, with the maximum size for an
individual patch about 0.04 square wavelengths. Large patches may be used on
large smooth surfaces while smaller patches are needed in areas of small
radius of curvature, both for geometrical modeling accuracy and for accuracy
of the integral equation solution. In the case of an edge, a precise local
representation cannot be included; however, smaller patches in the vicinity
of the edge can lead to more accurate results since the current magnitude
may vary rapidly in this region. Since connection of a wire to a patch
causes the patch to be divided into four smaller patches, a larger patch may
be input in anticipation of the subdivision.
While patch shape is not input to the program, very long narrow patches
should be avoided when subdividing the surface. This is illustrated by the
two methods of modeling a sphere shown in Figure 3. The first uses uniform
division in azimuth and equal cuts along the vertical axis. This results in
all patches having equal areas but with long narrow patches near the poles.
In the second method, the number of divisions in azimuth is increased toward
the equator so that the patch length and width are kept more nearly equal.
The areas are again kept approximately equal.

Figure 3. Patch Models for a Sphere.

The results of the two segmentations are shown in Figure 4 for scattering by a sphere of ka (2p radius/wavelength) equal to 5.3. The uniform segmentation used 14 increments in azimuth and 14 equal bands along the vertical axis. The variable segmentation used 13 equal increments in arc length along the vertical axis, with each band from top to bottom divided into the following number of
patches in azimuth: 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 24, 24, 20, 16, 12, 8, 4. Much
better agreement with experiment is obtained with the variable segmentation.


Figure 4. Bistatic RCS of a Sphere with ka = 5.3.
(Figure 4 continues —>

Figure 4. Bistatic RCS of a Sphere with ka = 5.3 (continuation).

In general, the use of surface patches is restricted to modeling voluminous
bodies. The surface modeled must be closed since the patches only model the
side of the surface from which their normals are directed outward. If a
somewhat thin body, such as a box with one narrow dimension, is modeled with
patches the narrow sites (edges) must be modeled a well as the broad
surfaces. Furthermore, the parallel surface on opposite sides cannot be too
close together or severe numerical error will occur.

When modeling complex structures with features not previously encountered,
accuracy may be checked by comparison with reliable experimental data if
available. Alternatively, it may be possible to develop an idealized model
for which the correct results can be estimated while retaining the critical
features of the desired model. The optimum model for a class of structures
can be estimated by varying the segment and patch density and observing the
effect on the results. Some dependence of results on segmentation will
always be found. A large dependence, however, would indicate that the
solution has not converged and more segments or patches should be used. A
model will generally be usable over a band of frequencies. For frequencies
beyond the upper limit of a particular model, a new set of geometry cards
must be input with a finer segmentation.

3. Modeling Structures Over Ground

Several options are available in NEC for modeling an antenna over a ground
plane. For a perfectly conducting ground, the code generates an image of the
structure reflected in the ground surface. The image is exactly equivalent
to a perfectly conducting ground and results in solution accuracy comparable
to that for a free-space model. Structures may be close to the ground or
contacting it in this case. However, for a horizontal wire with radius a,
and height h to the wire axis, [h2 + a2]1/2 should be greater than about
10-6 wavelengths. Furthermore, the height should be at least several times
the radius for the thin-wire approximation to be valid. This method doubles
the time to fill the interaction matrix. A finitely conducting ground may be
modeled by an image modified by the Fresnel plane-wave reflection
coefficients. This method is fast but of limited accuracy and should not be
used for structures close to the ground. The reflection coefficient
approximation for the near fields can yield reasonable accuracy if the
structure is a least several tenths of a wavelength above the ground. It
should not be used for structures having a large horizontal extent over the
ground such as some traveling-wave antennas. An alternate method
(Sommerfeld/Norton), available for wires only, uses the exact solution for
the fields in the presence of ground and is accurate close to the ground.
For a horizontal wire the height restriction is the same as for a perfect
ground. When this method is used NEC requires an input file (TAPE21)
containing field values for the specific ground parameters and frequency.
This interpolation table must be generated by running a separate program,
SOMNEC, prior to the NEC run. The present NEC code uses the Sommerfeld/
Norton method only for wire-to-wire interactions. If Sommerfeld/Norton
is requested for a structure that includes surfaces, the reflection
coefficient approximation will be used for surface-to-surface and
surface-to-wire interactions. Computation of wire-to-wire interactions by
the Sommerfeld/ Norton method take about four times longer than for free
space. In addition, computation of the interpolation table requires about 15
s on a CDC 7600 computer. However, the file of interpolation tables may be
saved and reused for problems having the same ground parameters and
frequency. The Sommerfeld/Norton method is not available in the earlier
code, NEC-l.

A wire ground screen may be modeled with the Sommerfeld/Norton method if it
is raised slightly above the ground surface. A ground stake cannot be
modeled in NEC since there is presently no provision to compute interactions
across the interface. Wires may end on a ground plane with a condition that
the charge density (i.e., derivative of current) be zero at the base of the
wire, but this is accurate only for a perfectly conducting ground. A wire
may end on a finitely conducting ground with the charge set to zero at the
connection, but this will not accurately model a ground stake. If a wire is
driven against a finitely conducting ground in this way, the input impedance
will typically be dependent on length of the source segment.

NEC also includes options for a radial-wire ground-screen approximation and
two-medium ground approximation (cliff) based on modified reflection
coefficients. These methods are implemented only for wires and not for
patches, however. For the radial-wire ground-screen approximation, an
approximate surface impedance - based on the wire density and the ground
parameters - is computed at specular reflection points. Since the formula
for surface impedance yields zero at the center of the screen, the current
on a vertical monopole will be the same as over a perfect ground. The ground
screen approximation is used in computing both near-field interactions and
the radiated field. It should be noted that diffraction from the edge of the
screen is not included. When limited accuracy can be accepted, the ground
screen approximation provides a large time saving over explicit modeling
with the Sommerfeld/Norton method since the ground screen does not increase
the number of unknowns in the matrix equation.

The two-medium ground approximation permits the user to define a linear or
circular cliff with different ground parameters and ground height on
opposite sides. This approximation is not used for the near-field
interactions affecting the currents but is used in computing the radiated
field. The reflection coefficient is based on the ground parameters and
height at the specular-reflection point for each ray. This option may also
be used to compute the current over a perfect ground and then compute
radiated fields for a finitely conducting ground.
Section III – PROGRAM INPUT
1. Comment Cards (CM, CE)

The data-card deck for a run must begin with one or more comment cards which
can contain a brief description and structure parameters for the run. The
cards are printed at the beginning of the output of the run for
identification only and have no effect on the computation. Any alphabetic
and numeric characters can be punched on these cards. The comment cards, like
all other data cards, have a two-letter identifier in columns 1 and 2. The
two forms for comment cards are:

Card:
     _________________________________________________________________
    /2|  5|   10|   15|   20|    30|    40|    50|    60|    70|    80|
   /  |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | CM|   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | The numbers along the top refer to the last column in each field. |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |

     _________________________________________________________________
    /2|  5|   10|   15|   20|    30|    40|    50|    60|    70|    80|
   /  |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | CE|   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | The numbers along the top refer to the last column in each field. |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |


When a CM card is read, the contents of columns 3 through 80 are printed in
the output, and the next card is read as a comment card.  When a CE card is
read, columns 3 through 80 are printed, and reading of comments is
terminated.  The next card must be geometry card.  Thus, a CE Card must
always occur in a data deck and may be preceded by as many CM cards as are
needed to describe the run.

2. Structure Geometry Input Cards
Wire Arc Specification (GA)

Purpose: To generate a circular arc of wire segments.

Card:
    _______________________________________________________
   / 2|  5|   10|   20|   30|  40|  50|    60|    70|    80|
  |   |   |     |     |     |    |    |      |      |      |
  | GA| I1| I2  | F1  | F2  | F3 | F4 | blank| blank| blank|
  |   |   |     |     |     |    | R  |      |      |      |
  |   | I |  N  |  R  |  A  | A  | A  |      |      |      |
  |   | T |  S  |  A  |  N  | N  | D  |      |      |      |
  |   | G |     |  D  |  G  | G  |    |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |  A  |  1  | 2  |    |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |    |    |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |    |    |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |    |    |      |      |      |
  |The numbers along the top refer to the last column in each field.
  |   |   |     |     |     |    |    |      |      |      |

Field   Parameter       Last column in each field
----    ----            -------------------------
GA                      2
ITG     I1              5
NS      I2              10
RADA    F1              20
ANG1    F2              30
ANG2    F3              40
RAD     F4              50
blank                   60
blank                   70
blank                   80

Parameters:
     Integers
          ITG (I1) - Tag number assigned to all segments of the wire arc.
          NS (I2) - Number of segments into which the arc will be divided.
     Decimal Numbers
          RADA (F1) - Arc radius (center is the origin and the axis is the y
          axis.
          ANG1 (F2) - Angle of first end of the arc measured from the x axis
          in a left-hand direction about the y axis (degrees).
          ANG2 (F3) - Angle of the second end of the arc.
          RAD (F4) - Wire radius.

Notes:
   * The segments generated by GA form a section of polygon inscribed within
     the arc.
   * If an arc in a different position or orientation is desired the
     segments may be moved with a GM card.
   * Use of GA to form a circle will not result in symmetry being used in
     the calculation. It is a good way to form the beginning of the circle,
     to be completed by GR, however.
   * (See notes for GW.)
End Geometry Input  (GE)

Purpose: To terminate reading of geometry data cards and reset geometry data
if a ground plane is used.

Card:
Field   Parameter       Last column in each field
----    ----            -------------------------
GE                      2
I1      gpflag          5
blank                   10
blank                   20
blank                   30
blank                   40
blank                   50
blank                   60
blank                   70
blank                   80

Parameters:
   Integers:
     gpflag - Geometry ground plain flag.
          0 - no ground plane is present.
          1 - Indicates a ground plane is present. Structure symmetry is
          modified as required, and the current expansion is modified so
          that the currents an segments touching the ground (x, Y plane) are
          interpolated to their images below the ground (charge at base is
          zero)
          -1 - indicates a ground is present. Structure symmetry is modified
          as required. Current expansion, however, is not modified, Thus,
          currents on segments touching the ground will go to zero at the
          ground.
     Decimal Numbers:
          The decimal number fields are not used.

Notes:
   * The basic function of the GE card is to terminate reading of geometry
     data cards. In doing this, it causes the program to search through the
     segment data that have been generated by the preceding cards to
     determine which wires are connected for current expansion.
   * At the time that the GE card is read, the structure dimensions must be
     in units of meters.
   * A positive or negative value of I1 does not cause a ground to be
     included in the calculation. It only modifies the geometry data as
     required when a ground is present. The ground parameters must be
     specified on a program control card following the geometry cards.
   * When I1 is nonzero, no segment my extend below the ground plane (X,Y
     plane) or lie in this plane. Segments my end on the ground plane,
     however.
   * If the height of a horizontal wire is less than 10-3 times the segment
     length, I1 equal to 1 will connect the end of every segment in the wire
     to ground.  I1 should be -1 to avoid this disaster.
   * As an example of how the symmetry of a structure is affected by the
     presence of ground plane (X,Y plane), consider a structure generated
     with cylindrical symmetry about the Z axis. The presence of a ground
     does not effect the cylindrical symmetry. If however this same
     structure is rotated off the vertical, cylindrical symmetry is lost
     in the presence of the ground. As a second example, consider a dipole
     parallel to the Z axis, which was generated with symmetry about its feed.
     The presence of a ground plane destroys this symmetry. The program
     modifies structure symmetries as follows when I1 is nonzero.  If the
     structure was rotated about the X or Y axis by the GM card, all
     symmetry is lost (i.e., the no-symmetry condition is set).  If the
     structure was not rotated about the X or Y axis, only symmetry about a
     plane parallel to the X, Y plane is lost.  Translation or a structure
     does not affect symmetries.

Read Numerical Green’s Function File (GF)

Purpose: To read a previously written Numerical Green’s Function (“NGF”) file.

Card:
    _________________________________________________________________
    /2|  5|   10|   15|   20|    30|    40|    50|    60|    70|    80|
   /  |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | GF| I1|     |     |     | blank| blank| blank| blank| blank| blank|
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |  b  |  b  |  b  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |  l  |  l  |  l  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |  a  |  a  |  a  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |  n  |  n  |  n  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |  k  |  k  |  k  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | The numbers along the top refer to the last column in each field. |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |


Parameters:
     Integers
          (I1) - Prints a table of the coordinates of the ends of all
          segments in the NGF if I1 not equal to 0. Normal printing
          otherwise.

Notes:

   * GF must be the first card in the structure geometry section,
     immediately after CE.  The effects of some other data cards are altered
     when a GF card is used.
   * See Section III-5.
Helix/Spiral Specification (GH)

Purpose: To generate a helix or spiral of wire segments

Card:

         Cols        Parameter
        ----------------------
         1- 2        GH
         3- 5        I1 - ITG
         6-10        I2 - NS
        11-20        F1 - S
        21-30        F2 - HL
        31-40        F3 - A1
        41-50        F4 - B1
        51-60        F5 - A2
        61-70        F6 - B2
        71-80        F7 - RAD

Parameters:

    Integers

           ITG (11) - Tag number assigned to all segments of the helix or
                        spiral.
           NS  (12) - Number of segments into which the helix or spiral
                        will be divided.

    Floating Point

           S   (F1) - Spacing between turns.
           HL  (F2) - Total length of the helix.
           A1  (F3) - Radius in x at z = 0.
           B1  (F4) - Radius in y at z = 0.
           A2  (F5) - Radius in x at z = HL.
           B2  (F6) - Radius in y at z = HL.
           RAD (F7) - Radius of wire.

Notes:
   * Structure will be a helix if A2 = A1 and HL > 0.
   * Structure will be a spiral if A2 = A1 and HL = 0.
        • Unless it has been fixed in the codes in circulation, the use of
          HL=0 for a flat spiral will result in division by zero in NEC-2.
          GH was a non-official addition to NEC-2.
   * HL negative gives a left-handed helix.
   * HL positive gives a right-handed helix.

Coordinate Transformation (GM)

Purpose: To translate or rotate a structure with respect to the coordinate
system or to generate new structures translated or rotated from the
original.

Card:
     __________________________________________________________
    /2|  5|   10|   20|   30|    40|    50|    60|    70|    80|
   /  |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |
  | GM| I1| I2  | F1  | F2  | F3   |  F4  |  F5  |  F6  |  F7  |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | I |  N  | ROX | ROY | ROZ  |  XS  |  XY  |  XZ  | ITS  |
  |   | T |  R  |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | G |  P  |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | I |  T  |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |
  |The numbers along the top refer to the last column in each field.
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |

Parameters:
     Integers
          ITGI  (I1) - Tag number increment.
          NRPT  (I2) - The number of new structures to be generated

     Decimal Numbers
          ROX   (F1) - Angle in degrees through which the structure is
                       rotated about the X-axis.  A positive angle causes
                       a right-hand rotation.
          ROY   (F2) - Angle of rotation about Y-axis.
          ROZ   (F3) - Angle of rotation about Z-axis.
          XS    (F4) - X, Y, Z components of vector by which
          YS    (F5) - structure is translated with respect to
          ZS    (F6) - the coordinate system.
          ITS   (F7) - This number is input as a decimal number but is rounded
                       to an integer before use.  Tag numbers are searched
                       sequentially until a segment having a tag of this
                       segment  [OCR ERROR/OMISSION? —ccc]
                       through the end of the sequence of segments 
                       is moved by the card.
                       If ITS is blank (usual case) or zero,
                       the entire structure is moved.
Notes:
   * If NRPT is zero, the structure is moved by the specified rotation and
     translation leaving nothing in the original location. If NRPT is greater
     than zero, the original structure remains fixed and NRPT new structures
     are formed, each shifted from the previous one by the requested
     transformation.
   * The tag increment, ITGI, is used when new structures are generated
     (NRPT greater than zero) to avoid duplication of tag numbers. Tag
     numbers of the segments in each new copy of the structure are
     incremented by ITGI from the tags on the previous copy or original.
     Tags of segments which are generated from segments having no tags (tag
     equal to zero) are not incremented. Generally, ITGI will be greater
     than or equal to the largest tag number used on the original structure
     to avoid duplication of tags. For example, if tag numbers 1 through 100
     have been used before a (GM) card is read having NRPT equal to 2, then
     ITGI equal to 100 will cause the first copy of the structure to have
     tags from 101 to 200 and the second copy from 201 to 300. If NRPT is
     zero, the tags on the original structure will be incremented.
   * The result of a transformation depends on the order in which the
     rotations and translation are applied. The order used is first rotation
     about X-axis, then rotation about the Y-axis, then rotation about the
     Z-axis and, finally, translation by (XS, YS, ZS). All operations refer
     to the fixed coordinate system axes. If a different order is desired,
     separate GM cards may be used.

Generate Cylindrical Structure (GR)

Purpose:  To reproduce a structure by rotating about the Z-axis to form a
          complete cylindrical array, and to set flags so that symmetry is
          utilized in the solution.

Card:
          Cols.  Parameter
          ----------------
           1- 2  GR
           3- 5  I1
           6-10  I2
          11-20  blank
          21-30  blank
          31-40  blank
          41-50  blank
          51-60  blank
          61-70  blank
          71-80  blank

Parameters:
        Integers
           (I1) - Tag number increment.
           (I2) - Total number of times that the structure is to occur in the
                  cylindrical array.

        Decimal Numbers
           The decimal number fields are not used.

Notes:
   * The tag increment (I1) is used to avoid duplication of tag numbers in
     the reproduced structures. In forming a new structure for the array,
     all valid tags on the previous copy or original structure are
     incremented by (I1). Tags equal to zero are not incremented.
   * The GR card should never be used when there are segments on the Z-axis
     or crossing the Z-axis since overlapping segments would result.
   * The GR card sets flags so the program makes use of cylindrical symmetry
     in solving for the currents. If a structure modeled by N segments has M
     sections in cylindrical symmetry (formed by a GR card with I2 equal to
     M), the number of complex numbers in matrix storage and the
     proportionality factors for matrix fill time and matrix factor time
     are:

                                        Matrix         Fill        Factor
                                       Storage         Time         Time
                                       -------         ----        ------

              No Symmetry                 N2            N2            N2

              M Symmetric Sections      (N2)/M        (N2)/M       (N2)/M

     The matrix factor time represents the optimum for a large matrix
     factored in core. Generally, somewhat longer times will be observed.
   * If the structure is added to or modified after the GR card in such a
     way that cylindrical symmetry is destroyed, the program must be reset
     to a no-symmetry condition. In most cases, the program is set by the
     geometry routines for the existing symmetry. Operations that auto-
     matically reset the symmetry conditions are:
        o Addition of a wire by a GW card destroys all symmetry.
        o Generation of additional structures by a GM card, with NRPT
          greater than zero, destroys all symmetry.
        o A GM card acting on only part of the structure (having ITS greater
          than zero) destroys all symmetry.
        o A GX or GR card will destroy all previously established symmetry.
        o If a structure is rotated about either the X or Y axis by use of a
          GM card and a ground plane is specified on the GE card, all
          symmetry will be destroyed. Rotation about the Z-axis or transla-
          tion will not affect symmetry. If a ground is not specified,
          symmetry will be unaffected by any rotation or translation by a GM
          card, unless NRPT or ITS on the GM card is greater than zero.
   * Symmetry will also be destroyed if lumped loads are placed on the
     structure in an unsymmetric manner. In this case, the program is not
     automatically set to a no-symmetry condition but must be set by a
     data card following the GR card. A GW card with NS blank will set the
     program to a no-symmetry condition without modifying the structure. The
     card must specify a nonzero radius, however, to avoid reading a GC
     card.
   * Placement of nonradiating networks or sources does not affect symmetry.
   * When symmetry is used in the solution, the number of symmetric sections
     (I2) is limited by array dimensions. In the demonstration deck, the
     limit is 16 sections.
   * The GR card produces the same effect on the structure as a GM card if
     I2 on the GR card is equal to (NRPT+1) on the GM card and if ROZ on the
     GM card is equal to 360/(NRPT+1) degrees. If the GM card is used,
     however, the program will not be set to take advantage of symmetry.

Scale Structure Dimensions (GS)

Purpose:  To scale all dimensions of a structure by a constant.

Card:
          Cols.  Parameter
          ----------------
           1- 2  GS
           3- 5  blank
           6-10  blank
          11-20  F1
          21-30  blank
          31-40  blank
          41-50  blank
          51-60  blank
          61-70  blank
          71-80  blank

Parameters:
        Integers
           The integer fields are not used.

        Decimal Numbers
           (F1) - All structure dimensions, including wire radius, are
                  multiplied by F1.

Notes:
   * At the end of geometry input, structure dimensions must be in units of
     meters. Hence, if the dimensions have been input in other units, a GS
     card must be used to convert to meters.

Wire Specification (GW)

Purpose:  To generate a string of segments to represent a straight wire.

Card:
          Cols.  Parameter
          ----------------
           1- 2  GW
           3- 5  I1 - ITG
           6-10  I2 - NS
          11-20  F1 - XW1
          21-30  F2 - YW1
          31-40  F3 - ZW1
          41-50  F4 - XW2
          51-60  F5 - YW2
          61-70  F6 - ZW2
          71-80  F7 - RAD

          The above card defines a string of segments with radius RAD.  If
          RAD is zero or blank, a second card is read to set parameters to
          taper the segment lengths and radius from one end of the wire to
          the other.  The format for the second card (GC), which is read
          only when RAD is zero, is:

          Cols.  Parameter
          ----------------
           1- 2  GC
           3- 5  blank
           6-10  blank
          11-20  F1 - RDEL
          21-30  F2 - RAD1
          31-40  F3 - RAD2
          41-50  blank
          51-60  blank
          61-70  blank
          71-80  blank

Parameters:
        Integers
           ITG   (I1) - Tag number assigned to all segments of the wire.
           NS    (I2) - Number of segments into which the wire will be
                        divided.

        Decimal Numbers
           XW1   (F1) - X coordinate  \
                                       \
           YW1   (F2) - Y coordinate    >  of wire end 1
                                       /
           ZW1   (F3) - Z coordinate  /

           XW2   (F4) - X coordinate  \
                                       \
           YW2   (F5) - Y coordinate    > of wire end 2
                                       /
           ZW2   (F6) - Z coordinate  /
           RAD   (F7) - Wire radius, or zero for tapered segment option.

       Optional GC card parameters:

           RDEL  (F1) - Ratio of the length of a segment to the length of the
                        previous segment in the string.

           RAD1  (F2) - Radius of the first segment in the string.

           RAD2  (F3) - Radius of the last segment in the string.

           The ratio of the radii of adjacent segments is

                        RRAD = (RAD2/RAD1)(1/(NS-1))

           If the total wire length is L, the length of the first segment is

                        S1 = L(1-RDEL)/(1-RDELNS)

           or

                        S1 = L/NS if RDEL=1.

Notes:
   * The tag number is for later use when a segment must be identified, such
     as when connecting a voltage source or lumped load to the segment. Any
     number except zero can be used as a tag. When identifying a segment
     by its tag, the tag number and the number of the segment in the set of
     segments having that tag are given. Thus, the tag of a segment does not
     need to be unique. If no need is anticipated to refer back to any
     segments on a wire by tag, the tag field may be left blank. This
     results in a tag of zero which cannot be referenced as a valid tag.
   * If two wires are electrically connected at their ends, the identical
     coordinates should be used for the connected ends to ensure that the
     wires are treated as connected for current interpolation. If wires
     intersect away from their ends, the point of intersection must occur at
     segment ends within each wire for interpolation to occur. Generally,
     wires should intersect only at their ends unless the location of
     segment ends is accurately known.
   * The only significance of differentiating end one from end two of a wire
     is that the positive reference direction for current will be in the
     direction from end one to end two on each segment making up the wire.
   * As a rule of thumb, segment lengths should be less than 0.1 wave-
     length at the desired frequency. Somewhat longer segments may be used
     on long wires with no abrupt changes, while shorter segments, 0.05
     wavelength or less, may be required in modeling critical regions of an
     antenna.
   * If input is in units other than meters, then the units must be scaled
     to meters through the use of a Scale Structure Dimensions (GS) card.

Reflection in Coordinate Planes (GX)

Purpose: To form structures having planes of symmetry by reflecting part
         of the structure in the coordinate planes, and to set flags so that
         symmetry is utilized in the solution.

Card:
         Cols.        Parameter
         ----------------------
          1- 2        GX
          3- 5        I1
          6-10        I2
         11-80        blank

Parameters:
        Integers
           (I1) - Tag number increment.
           (12) - This integer is divided into three independent digits, in
                  columns 8, 9, and 10 of the card, which control reflection
                  in the three orthogonal coordinate planes.  A one in column
                  8 causes reflection along the X-axis (reflection in Y, Z
                  plane); a one in column 9 causes reflection along the Y-axis;
                  and a one in column 10 causes reflection along the Z axis.
                  A zero or blank in any of these columns causes the corres-
                  ponding reflection to be skipped.

        Decimal Numbers
            The decimal number fields are not used.

Notes:
   * Any combination of reflections along the X, Y and Z axes may be used.
     For example, 101 for (I2) will cause reflection along axes X and Z, and
     111 will cause reflection along axes X, Y and Z. When combinations of
     reflections are requested, the reflections are done in reverse
     alphabetical order. That is, if a structure is generated in a single
     octant of space and a GX card is then read with I2 equal to 111, the
     structure is first reflected along the Z-axis; the structure and its
     image are then reflected along the Y-axis; and, finally, these four
     structures are reflected along the X-axis to fill all octants. This
     order determines the position of a segment in the sequence and, hence,
     the absolute segment numbers.
   * The tag increment I1 is used to avoid duplication of tag numbers in the
     image segments. All valid tags on the original structure are
     incremented by I1 on the image. When combinations of reflections are
     employed, the tag increment is doubled after each reflection. Thus, a
     tag increment greater than or equal to the largest tag an the original
     structure will ensure that no duplicate tags are generated. For
     example, if tags from 1 to 100 are used on the original structure with
     I2 equal to 011 and a tag increment of 100, the first reflection, along
     the Z-axis, will produce tags from 101 to 200; and the second
     reflection, along the Y-axis, will produce tags from 201 to 400, as a
     result of the increment being doubled to 200.
   * The GX card should never be used when there are segments located in the
     plane about which reflection would take place or crossing this plane.
     The image segments would then coincide with or intersect the original
     segments, and such overlapping segments are not allowed. Segments may
     end on the image plane, however.
   * When a structure having plane symmetry is formed by a GX card, the
     program will make use of the symmetry to simplify solution for the
     currents. The number of complex numbers in matrix storage and the
     proportionality factors for matrix fill time and matrix factor time for
     a structure modeled by N segments are:

         No. of Planes          Matrix               Fill           Factor
          of Symmetry           Storage              Time            Time

              0                   N2                   N2              N3

              1                   N2/2                N2/2            N3/4

              2                   N2/4                N2/4            N3/16

              3                   N2/8                N2/8            N3/64

     The matrix factor time represents the optimum for a large matrix
     factored in core. Generally, somewhat longer times will be observed.
   * If the structure is added to or modified after the GX card in such a
     way that symmetry is destroyed, the program must be reset to a
     no-symmetry condition. In most cases, the program is set by the
     geometry routines for the existing symmetry. Operations that
     automatically reset the symmetry condition are:
        o Addition of a wire by a GW card destroys all symmetry.
        o Generation of additional structures by a GM card, with NRPT
          greater than zero, destroys all symmetry.
        o A GM card acting on only part of the structure (having ITS greater
          than zero) destroys all symmetry.
        o A GX card or GR card will destroy all previously established
          symmetry. For example, two GR cards with I2 equal to 011 and 100,
          respectively, will produce the same structure as a single GX card
          with I2 equal to 111; however, the first case will set the program
          to use symmetry about the Y, Z plane only while the second case
          will make use of symmetry about all three coordinate planes.
        o If a ground plane is specified on the GE card, symmetry about a
          plane parallel to the X, Y plane will be destroyed. Symmetry about
          other planes will be used, however.
        o If a structure is rotated about either the X or Y axis by use of a
          GM card and a ground plane is specified on the GE card, all
          symmetry will be destroyed. Rotation about the Z-axis or
          translation will not affect symmetry. If a ground is not
          specified, no rotation or translation will affect symmetry
          conditions unless NRPT on the GM card is greater than zero.
        o Symmetry will also be destroyed if lumped loads are placed on the
          structure in an unsymmetric manner. In this case, the program is
          not automatically set to a no-symmetry condition but must be set
          by a data card following the GX card. A GW card with NS blank will
          set the program to a no-symmetry condition without modifying the
          structure. The card must specify a nonzero radius, however, to
          avoid reading a GC card.
   * Placement of sources or nonradiating networks does not affect symmetry.

Surface Patch (SP)

Purpose:  To input parameters of a single surface patch.

Card:
         Cols        Parameter
        ----------------------
         1- 2        SP
         3- 5        I1 - blank
         6-10        I2 - NS
        11-20        F1 - X1
        21-30        F2 - Y1
        31-40        F3 - Z1
        41-50        F4 - X2
        51-60        F5 - Y2
        61-70        F6 - Z2
        71-80        blank

       If NS is 1, 2, or 3, a second card is read in the following
       format:

         Cols        Parameter
        ----------------------
         1- 2        SC
         3- 5        I1 - blank
         6-10        I2 - (see Notes)
        11-20        F1 - X3
        21-30        F2 - Y3
        31-40        F3 - Z3
        41-50        F4 - X4
        51-60        F5 - Y4
        61-70        F6 - Z4
        71-80        blank

Parameters:
    Integers:
              (I1) -  not used
          NS  (I2) -  Selects patch shape
                         0: (default) arbitrary patch shape
                         1: rectangular patch
                         2: triangular patch
                         3: quadrilateral patch

    Decimal Numbers:

     o Arbitrary shape (NS = 0)

         X1  (F1) - X coordinate of patch center
         Y1  (F2) - Y coordinate of patch center
         Z1  (F3) - Z coordinate of patch center

         X2  (F4) - elevation angle above the X-Y plane of
                    outward normal vector (degrees)
         Y2  (F5) - azimuth angle from X-axis of outward
                    normal vector (degrees)
         Z2  (F6) - patch area (square of units used)
    o Rectangular, triangular, or quadrilateral patch (NS = 1, 2, or 3)
         X1  (F1)    X coordinate of corner 1
         Y1  (F2)    Y coordinate of corner 1
         Z1  (F3)    Z coordinate of corner 1
         X2  (F4)    X coordinate of corner 2
         Y2  (F5)    Y coordinate of corner 2
         Z2  (F6)    Z coordinate of corner 2
         X3  (Fl)    X coordinate of corner 3
         Y3  (F2)    Y coordinate of corner 3
         Z3  (F3)    Z coordinate of corner 3

    o For the quadrilateral patch only (NS = 3)
         X4  (F4)    X coordinate of corner 4
         Y4  (F5)    Y coordinate of corner 4
         Z4  (F6)    Z coordinate of corner 4

Notes:
   * The four patch options are shown in Figures 5a, 5b, 5c, 5d. For the
     rectangular, triangular, and quadrilateral patches the outward normal
     vector n is specified by the ordering of corners 1, 2, and 3 and the
     right-hand rule.






   * For a rectangular, triangular, or quadrilateral patch, t1 is parallel
     to the side from corner 1 to corner 2. For NS = 0, t1 is chosen as
     described in section II-2.
   * If the sides from corner 1 to corner 2 and from corner 2 to corner 3 of
     the rectangular patch are not perpendicular, the result will be a
     parallelogram.
   * If the four corners of the quadrilateral patch do not lie in the same
     plane, the run will terminate with an error message.
   * Since the program does not integrate over patches, except at a wire
     connection, the patch shape does not affect the results. The only
     parameters affecting the results are the location of the patch
     centroid, the patch area, and the outward unit normal vector. For the
     arbitrary patch shape these are input, while for the other options they
     are determined from the specified shape. For solution accuracy,
     however, the distribution of patch centers obtained with generally
     square patches has been found to be desirable (see section II-2).
   * For the rectangular or quadrilateral options, multiple SC cards may
     follow a SP card to specify a string of patches. The parameters on the
     second or subsequent SC card specify corner 3 for a rectangle or
     corners 3 and 4 for a quadrilateral, while corners 3 and 4 of the
     previous patch become corners 2 and 1, respectively, of the new patch.
     The integer I2 on the second or subsequent SC card specifies the new
     patch shape and must be 1 for rectangular shape or 3 for quadrilateral
     shape. On the first SC card after SP, I2 has no effect. Rectangular or
     quadrilateral patches may be intermixed, but triangular or arbitrary
     shapes are not allowed in a string of linked patches.

Multiple Patch Surface (SM)

Purpose:  To cover a rectangular region with surface patches.

Card:
        SM  I1  I2   F1    F2    F3    F4    F5    F6    blank
            NX  NY   X1    Y1    Z1    X2    Y2    Z2

   A second card with the following format must immediately follow
   a SM card:
        SC           F1    F2    F3    F4    F5    F6    blank
                     X3    Y3    Z3

Parameters:
        Integers:
            NX    (I1)  \ The rectangular surface is divided into NX patches
                        | from corner 1 to corner 2 and NY patches from
            NY    (I2)  / corner 2 to corner 3.

        Decimal Numbers:
            X1    (F1) \
            Y1    (F2) | X, Y, Z coordinates of corner 1
            Z1    (F3) /
            X2    (F4) \
            Y2    (F5) | X, Y, Z coordinates of corner 2
            Z2    (F6) /
            X3    (F7) \
            Y3    (F8) | X, Y, Z coordinates of corner 3
            Z3    (F9) /

Notes:
      o  The division of the rectangle into patches is as illustrated in
         Figure 6.

Figure 6. Rectangular Surface Covered by Multiple Patches.

      o  The direction of the outward normals ^n of the patches is determined
         by the ordering of corners 1, 2, and 3 and the right-hand rule.  The
         vectors ^t1 are parallel to the side from corner 1 to corner 2 and
         ^t2 = ^n x ^t1.  The patch may have arbitrary orientation.

      o  If the sides between corners 1 and 2 and between corners 2 and 3 are
         not perpendicular, the complete surface and the individual patches
         will be parallelograms.

      o  Multiple SC cards are not allowed with SM.

Examples of Structure Geometry Data

Rhombic Antenna - No Symmetry
     Structure: Figure 7.

     Geometry Data Cards

     GW 1  10 -350.        0.  150.   0.  150.  150.  .1
     GW 2  10    0.      150.  150. 350.    0.  150.  .1
     GW 3  10 -350.        0.  150.   0. -150.  150.  .1
     GW 4  10    0.     -150.  150. 350.    0.  150.  .1
     GS          0.30480
     GE


     Number of Segments: 40
     Symmetry: None
     These cards generate segment data for a rhombic antenna. The data 
     are input in feet and scaled to meters. In the figure, numbers
     near the structure represent segment numbers and circled
     numbers represent tag numbers.
Rhombic Antenna - Plane Symmetry, 2 Planes
     Structure: See Figure 8.

     Geometry Data Cards

     GW 1  10 -350.        0.  150.   0.  150.  150.  .1
     GX 1  110
     GS          0.30480
     GE

     Number of Segments: 40
     Symmetry: Two planes
     These cards generate the same structure as the previous set although
     the segment numbering is altered. By making use of two planes of
     symmetry, these data will require storage of only a 10 by 40
     interaction matrix. If segments 21 and 31 are to be loaded as the
     termination of the antenna, then symmetry about the YZ plane cannot be
     used. The following cards will result in symmetry about only the XZ
     plane being used in the solution, thus allowing segments on one end of
     the antenna to be loaded.
Rhombic Antenna - Plane Symmetry, 1 Plane
     Structure: Figure 9.

     Geometry Data Cards:

     GW 1  10 -350.        0.  150.   0.  150.  150.  .1
     GX 1 100
     GX 2 010
     GS          0.30480
     GE

     Number of Segments: 40
     Symmetry: One plane
     Segments 1 through 20 of this structure are in the first symmetric
     section. Hence, segments 11 and 31 can be loaded without loading
     segments 1 and 21 (Loading segments in symmetric structures is
     discussed in the section covering the LD card). These data will 
     cause storage of a 20 by 40 interaction matrix.
Two Coaxial Rings
     Structure: Figure 10.

     Geometry Data Cards:

     GW 1   1    1.0       0.       0.     0.70711  0.70711  0.      .001
     GW 2   1    2.0       0.       0.     0.76536  1.84776  0.      .001
     GW 2   1    0.76536   1.84776  0.     1.41421  1.41421  0.      .001
     GR     8
     GM         90.0       0.       0.     0.       0.       2.0
     GE

     Number of Segments: 24
     Symmetry: 8 section cylindrical symmetry
     The first 45 degree section of the two rings is generated by the first
     three GW cards. This section is then rotated about the X-axis to
     complete the structure. The rings are then rotated about the X-axis and
     elevated to produce the structure shown. Since no tag increment is
     specified on the GR card, all segments on the first ring have tags of 1
     and all segments on the second ring have tags of 2. Because of
     symmetry, these data will require storage of only a 3 by 24 interaction
     matrix. If a 1 were punched in column 5 of the GE card, however,
     symmetry would be destroyed by the interaction with the ground,
     requiring storage of a 24 by 24 matrix
Linear Antenna over a Wire Grid Plate
     Structure: Figure 11.

     Geometry Data Cards:

     GW     1    0.        0.       0.     0.1   0.   0.      .001
     GW     1    0.        0.       0.     0.    0.1  0.      .001
     GM     2    0.        0.       0.     0.    0.1  0.
     GW     1    0.        0.3      0.0    0.1   0.3  0.      .001
     GM     4    0.        0.       0.     0.1   0.   0.
     GW     3    0.5       0.       0.     0.5   0.3  0.      .001
     GM          0.        0.       0.    -0.25 -0.15 0.
     GW  1  5   -0.25      0.       0.15   0.25  0.   0.15    .001
     GE

     Number of Segments: 43
     Symmetry: None
     The first 6 cards generate data for the wire grid plate, with the lower
     left-hand corner at the coordinate origin, by using the GM card to
     reproduce sections of the structure. The GM card is then used to move
     the center of the plate to the origin.  Finally, a wire is generated
     0.15 meters above the plate with a tag of 1.
Cylinder with Attached Wires
     Structure: See Figure 12.

     Geometry Data Cards:

     SP         10.        0.       7.3333   0.    0.    38.4
     SP         10.        0.       0.       0.    0.    38.4
     SP         10.        0.       7.3333   0.    0.    38.4
     GM     1    0.        0.      30.
     SP          6.89      0.      11.      90.    0.    44.89
     SP          6.89      0.      11.      90.    0.    44.89
     GR     6
     SP          0.        0.      11.      90.    0.    44.89
     SP          0.        0.      11.      90.    0.    44.89
     GW     4    0.        0.      11.       0.    0.    23.       .1
     GW     5   10.        0.       0.      27.6   0.     0.       .2
     GS           .01
     GE

     Number of Segments: 9
     Number of Patches: 56
     Symmetry: None
     The cylinder is generated by first specifying three patches in a column
     centered on the X axis as shown in Figure 12(a). A GM card is then used
     to produce a second column of patches rotated about the Z axis by 30
     degrees. A patch is added to the top and another to the bottom to form
     parts of the end surfaces. The model at this point is shown in Figure
     12(b). Next, a GR card is used to rotate this section of patches about
     the Z axis to form a total of six similar sections, including the
     original. A patch is then added to the center of the top and another to
     the bottom to from the complete cylinder shown in Figure 12(c).
     Finally, two GW cards are used to add wires connecting to the top and
     side of the cylinder. The patches to which the wires are connected are
     devided into four smaller patches as shown in Figure 12(d). Although
     patch shape is not input to the program, square patches are assumed at
     the base of a connected wire when integrated over the surface current.
     Hence, a more accurate representation of the model would be as shown in
     Figure 13, where the patches to which wires connect are square with
     equal areas maintained for all patches (before subdivision).

3. Program Control Cards

The program control cards follow the structure geometry cards. They set
electrical parameters for the model, select options for the solution
procedure, and request data computation. The cards are listed below by their
mnemonic identifier with a brief description of their function:

        Group I         EK - extended thin-wire kernel flag
                        FR - frequency specification
                        GN - ground parameter specification
                        KH - interaction approximation range
                        LD - structure impedance loading

        Group II        EX - structure excitation card
                        NT - two-port network specification
                        TL - transmission line specification

        Group III       CP - coupling calculation
                        EN - end of data flag
                        GD - additional ground parameter specifications
                        NE - near electric field request
                        NH - near magnetic field request
                        NX - next structure flag
                        PQ - wire charge density print control
                        PT - wire-current print control
                        RP - radiation pattern request
                        WG - write Numerical Green's Function file
                        XQ - execute card

There is no fixed order for the cards. The desired parameters and options
are set first followed by requests for calculation of currents, near fields
and radiated fields. Parameters that are not set in the input data are given
default values. The one exception to this is the excitation (EX) which must
be set.

Computation of currents may be requested by an XQ card. RP, NE, or NH cards
cause calculation of the currents and radiated or near fields on the first
occurrence. Subsequent RP, NE, or NH cards cause computation of fields using
the previously calculated currents. Any number of near-field and
radiation-pattern requests may be grouped together in a data deck. An
exception to this occurs when multiple frequencies are requested by a single
FR card. In this case, only a single NE or NH card and a single RP card will
remain in effect for all frequencies.

All parameters retain their values until changed by subsequent data cards.
Hence, after parameters have been set and currents or fields computed,
selected parameters may be changed and the calculations repeated. For
example, if a number of different excitations are required at a single
frequency, the deck could have the form FR, EX, XQ, EX, XQ,....  If a single
excitation is required at a number of frequencies, the cards EX, FR, XQ, FR,
XQ,... could be used.

When the antenna is modified and additional calculations are requested, the
order of the cards may, in some cases, affect the solution time since the
program will repeat only that part of the solution affected by the changed
parameters. For this reason, the user should understand the relation of the
data cards to the solution procedure. The first step in the solution is to
calculate the interaction matrix, which determines the response of the
antenna to an arbitrary excitation, and to factor this matrix in preparation
for solution of the matrix equation. This is the most time-consuming single
step in the solution procedure. The second step is to solve the matrix
equation for the currents due to a specific excitation. Finally, the near
fields or radiated fields may be computed from the currents.

The interaction matrix depends only on the structure geometry and the cards
in group I of the program control cards. Thus, computation and factor-
ization of the matrix is not repeated if cards beyond group I are changed.
On the other hand, antenna currents depend on both the interaction matrix
and the cards in group II, so that the currents must be recomputed whenever
cards in group I or II are changed. The near fields depend only on the
structure currents while the radiated fields depend on the currents and on
the GD card, which contains special ground parameters for the radiated-field
calculation. An example of the implications of these rules is presented by
the following two sets of data cards:

        FR, EX, NT1, LD1, XQ, LD2, XQ, NT2, LD1, XQ, LD2, XQ
        FR, EX, LD1, NT1, XQ, NT2, XQ, LD2, NT1, XQ, NT2, XQ

Calculation and factoring of the matrix would be required four times by the
first set but only twice by the second set in obtaining the same
information.

The program control cards are explained on the following pages. The format
of all program control cards has four integers and six floating point
numbers. The integers are contained in columns 3 through 5, 6 through 10, 11
through 15, and 16 through 20 (each integer field stops at an integral
multiple of 5 columns), and the floating point numbers are contained in
fields of 10 for the remainder of the card (i.e., from 21 through 30, 31
through 40, etc.). Integers are right justified in their fields. The
floating point numbers can be punched either as a string of digits
containing a decimal point, punched anywhere in the field; or as a string of
digits containing a decimal point and followed by an exponent of ten in the
form E ±I which multiplies the number by 10±I. The integer exponent must
be right-justified in the field.
Maximum Coupling Calculation (CP)

Purpose: To request calculation of the maximum coupling between segments.

Card:
     _________________________________________________________________
    /2|  5|   10|   15|   20|    30|    40|    50|    60|    70|    80|
   /  |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | CP| I1| I2  | I3  | I4  | blank| blank| blank| blank| blank| blank|
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | T |  S  |  T  |  S  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | A |  E  |  A  |  E  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | G |  G  |  G  |  G  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | 1 |  1  |  2  |  2  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | The numbers along the top refer to the last column in each field. |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |

Parameters:

     TAG1    (I1)    Specify segment number SEG1 in th set of segments
     SEG1    (I2)    having tag TAG1.  If TAG1 is blank or zero, then
                     SEG1 is the segment number.
     TAG2    (I3)    Same as above.
     SEG2    (I4)    Same as above.

Notes:

   * Up to five segments may be specified on 2-1/2 CP cards. Coupling is
     computed between all pairs of these segments. When more than two
     segments are specified, the CP cards must be grouped together. A new
     group of CP cards replaces the old group.

   * CP does not cause the program to proceed with the calculation but only
     sets the segment numbers. The specified segments must then be excited
     (EX card) one at a time in the specified order and the currents
     computed (XQ, RP, NE, or NH card). The excitation must use the
     applied-field voltage-source model. When all of the specified segments
     have been excited in the proper order, the couplings will be computed
     and printed. After the coupling calculation the set of CP cards is
     canceled.
Extended Thin-Wire Kernel (EK)

Purpose: To control use of the extended thin-wire kernel approximation.
Card:
     _________________________________________________________________
    /2|  5|   10|   15|   20|    30|    40|    50|    60|    70|    80|
   /  |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | EK| I1|     |     |     | blank| blank| blank| blank| blank| blank|
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | I |  b  |  b  |  b  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | T |  l  |  l  |  l  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | M |  a  |  a  |  a  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | P |  n  |  n  |  n  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | 1 |  k  |  k  |  k  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | The numbers along the top refer to the last column in each field. |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |

Parameters:
    Integer
        ITMP1 (I1) - Blank or zero to initiate use of the extended thin-
                     wire kernel.
                  -1 to return to the standard thin-wire kernel.

Note:
    Without an EK card, the program will use the standard thin-wire kernel.
End of Run (EN)

Purpose: To indicate to the program the end of all execution.

Card:
     _________________________________________________________________
    /2|  5|   10|   15|   20|    30|    40|    50|    60|    70|    80|
   /  |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | EN|   |     |     |     | blank| blank| blank| blank| blank| blank|
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | b |  b  |  b  |  b  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | l |  l  |  l  |  l  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | a |  a  |  a  |  a  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | n |  n  |  n  |  n  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | k |  k  |  k  |  k  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | The numbers along the top refer to the last column in each field. |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |


Parameters: None
Excitation (EX)

Purpose: To specify the excitation for the structure. The excitation can be
voltage sources on the structure, an elementary current source, or a plane
wave incident on the structure.

Card:
     _________________________________________________________________
    /2|  5|   10|   15|   20|    30|    40|    50|    60|    70|    80|
   /  |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | EX| I1| I2  | I3  | I4  |  F1  |  F2  |  F3  |  F4  |  F5  |  F6  |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | The numbers along the top refer to the last column in each field. |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |

Parameters:
     Integers
          I1 determines the type of excitation which is used:
               0 - voltage source (applied-E-field source).
               1 - incident plane wave, linear polarization.
               2 - incident plane wave, right-hand (thumb along the
                   incident k-vector) elliptic polarization.
               3 - incident plane wave, left-hand elliptic polarization.
               4 - elementary current source.
               5 - voltage source (current-slope-discontinuity).
     Remaining Integers Depend on Excitation Type
         a. Voltage source (I1 = 0 or 5)
            I2 = tag number of the source segment. This tag number along
               with the number to be given in (I3), which identifies the
               position of the segment in a set of equal tag numbers,
               uniquely defines the source segment. Blank or zero in field
               (I2) implies that the source segment will be identified by
               using the absolute segment number in the next field.

            I3 = m, specifies the mth segment of the set of segments 
               whose tag numbers are equal to the number set by the
               previous parameter. If the previous parameter is zero, the
               number in (I3) must be the absolute segment number of the
               source.

            I4 - Columns l9 and 20 of this field are used separately.
                 The options for column l9 are:
                 1 - maximum relative admittance matrix asymmetry for
                     source segment and network connection will be calculated
                     and printed.
                 0 - no action.
                 The options for column 20 are:
                 l - the input impedance at voltage sources is always
                     printed directly before the segment currents in the
                     output. By setting this flag, the impedance of a single
                     source segment in a frequency loop will be collected ant
                     printed in a table (in a normalized and an unnormalized
                     form) after the information at all frequencies has been
                     printed. Normalization to the maximum value is a
                     default, but the normalization value can be specified
                     (refer to F3 under voltage source below). When there is
                     more than one source on the structure, only the
                     impedance of the last Source specified will be collected.
                 0 - no action
          b. Incident plane wave (I1 = 1, 2, or 3)
               (I2) - Number of theta angles desired for the incident plane
                      wave .
               (I3) - Number of phi angles desired for the incident plane
                      wave.
               (I4) - Only column l9 is used. The options are:
                      1 - maximum relative admittance matrix asymmetry for
                          network connections will be calculated and printed.
                      0 - no action
          c. Elementary current source (Il = 4)
               (I2) & (I3) - blank.
               (I4) - Only column l9 is used and its function is identical
                      to that listed under b.
     Floating Point Options
          a. Voltage source (Il = 0 or 5)
               (Fl) - Real part of the voltage in volts.
               (F2) - Imaginary part of the voltage in volts. (F3) - If a
               one is placed in column 20 (see above), this field can be
               used to specify a normalization constants for the impedance
               printed in the optional impedance table. Blank in this field
               produces normalization to the maximum value.
               (F4), (F5), & (F6) - Blank.
          b. Incident plane wave (I1 = 1, 2, or 3). The incident wave is
             characterized by the direction of its ^k vector, and by an
             angle of polarization in the plane normal to ^k.
               (F1) - Theta () in degrees. Theta is a standard spherical 
               coordinate, measured from the Z-axis as illustrated in
               Figure 14.


               (F2) - Phi () in degrees. Phi is the standard spherical angle
               defined in the XY plane, measured around the Z-axis.
               (F3) - Eta () in degrees. Eta is a polarization angle, defined
               as the angle between the theta-directed unit vector and the
               electric-field (E) vector for linear polarization, or the major
               ellipse axis for elliptical polarization.  Refer to Figure 14.
               (F4) - Theta angle stepping increment in degrees.
               (F5) - Phi angle stepping increment in degrees.
               (F6) - Ratio of minor axis to major axis for elliptic
                      polarization.
          C. Elementary current source (I1 = 4). The current source is
             characterized by its Cartesian coordinate position, orientation,
             and its magnitude.
               (F1) - X position in meters.
               (F2) - Y position in meters.
               (F3) - Z position in meters.
               (F4) - Alpha () in degrees. Alpha is the angle the current
                      source makes with the XY plane, as illustrated in
                      Figure 15.


               (F5) - Beta () in degrees. Beta is the angle that the
                      projection of the current source on the XY plane
                      makes with the X axis, as illustrated in Figure 15.
               (F6) - "Current moment" of the source. This parameter is
                      equal to the product [OCR GARBLE] in amp-meters.

Notes:
   * In the case of voltage sources, excitation cards can be grouped
     together in order to specify multiple sources. The maximum number of
     voltage sources that may be specified is determined by dimension
     statements in the program. The dimensions are set for 10 applied-E-
     field voltage sources and 10 current-slope-discontinuity voltage
     sources.
   * An applied-E-field voltage source is located on the segment specified.
   * A current-slope-discontinuity source is located at the first end,
     relative to the reference direction, of the specified segment, at the
     junction between the specified segment and the previous segment. This
     junction must be a simple two-segment junction. and the two segments
     must be parallel with equal lengths and radii.
   * A current-slope-discontinuity voltage source may lie in a symmetry
     plane. An applied field voltage source may not lie in a symmetry plane
     since a segment may not lie in a symmetry plane. An applied-field
     voltage source may be used on a wire crossing a symmetry plane by
     exciting the two segments on opposite sides of the symmetry plane each
     with half the total voltage, taking account of the reference directions
     of the two segments.
   * An applied-field voltage source specified on a segment which has been
     impedance-loaded, through the use of an LD card, is connected in series
     with the loads.  An applied-field voltage source specified on the same
     segment as a network is connected in parallel with the network port.
     For the specific case of a transmission line, the source is in parallel
     with both the line and the shunt load. Applied-field voltage sources
     should be used in these cases since loads and network connections are
     located on, rather than between, segments.
   * Only one incident plane-wave or one elementary current source is al-
     lowed at a time. Also, plane-wave or current-source excitation is not
     allowed with voltage sources. If the excitation types are mixed, the
     program will use the last excitation type encountered.
   * When a number of theta and phi angles are specified for an incident
     plane-wave excitation, the theta angle changes more rapidly than phi.
   * The current element source illuminates the structure with the field of
     an infinitesimal current element at the specified location. The current
     element source cannot be used over a ground plane.
Frequency (FR)

Purpose: To specify the frequency (frequencies) in MegaHertz.

Card:
     _________________________________________________________________
    /2|  5|   10|   15|   20|    30|    40|    50|    60|    70|    80|
   /  |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | FR| I1| I2  | I3  | I4  |  F1  |  F2  |  F3  |  F4  |  F5  |  F6  |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | I |  N  |  B  |  B  | FMHZ |DELFRQ|BLANK |BLANK |BLANK |BLANK |
  |   | F |  F  |  L  |  L  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | R |  R  |  A  |  A  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | Q |  Q  |  N  |  N  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |  K  |  K  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | The numbers along the top refer to the last column in each field. |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |

Parameters:
     Integers
          IFRQ (I1)  - Determines the type of frequency stepping:
                       0 - linear stepping.
                       1 - multiplicative stepping.
          NFRQ (12)  - Number of frequency steps. If this field is blank,
                       one is assumed.
          (I3), (I4) - Blank.
     Floating Point
          FMHZ (F1)  - Frequency in MegaHertz.
          DELFRQ (F2)- Frequency stepping increment. If the frequency
                       stepping is linear, this quantity is added to the
                       frequency each time. If the stepping is multiplicative,
                       this is the multiplication factor.
          (F3)…(F6)  - Blank.

Notes:

   * If a frequency card does not appear in the data deck, a single
     frequency of 299.8 MHz is assumed. Since the wavelength at 299.8 MHz is
     one meter, the geometry is in units of wavelengths for this case.

   * Frequency cards may not be grouped together. If they are, only the
     information on the last card in the group will be used.

   * After an FR card with NFRQ greater than 1, an NE or SH card will not
     initiate execution, while an RP or XQ card will. In this case, only one
     NE or WH card and one RP card will be effective for the multiple
     frequencies.

   * After a frequency loop for NFRQ > 1 has been completed, it will not
     be repeated for a second execution request. The FR card must be
     repeated in this case.
Additional Ground Parameters (GD)

Purpose: To specify the ground parameters of a second medium which is not in
the immediate vicinity of the antenna. This card may only be used if a GN
card has also been used. It does not affect the fields of surface patches.

Card:
     _________________________________________________________________
    /2|  5|   10|   15|   20|    30|    40|    50|    60|    70|    80|
   /  |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | GD| I1| I2  | I3  | I4  |  F1  |  F2  |  F3  |  F4  |  F5  |  F6  |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | B | B   | B   |  B  |  E   |  S   | CLT  | CHT  |  B   |  B   |
  |   | L | L   | L   |  L  |  P   |  I   |      |      |  L   |  L   |
  |   | A | A   | A   |  A  |  S   |  G   |      |      |  A   |  A   |
  |   | N | N   | N   |  N  |  R   |  2   |      |      |  N   |  N   |
  |   | K | K   | K   |  K  |  2   |      |      |      |  K   |  K   |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | The numbers along the top refer to the last column in each field. |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |

Parameters:
     Integers
          All integer fields are blank.
     Floating Point
          EPSR2 (F1) - Relative dielectric constant of the second medium.
          SIG2 (F2) - Conductivity in mhos/meter of the second medium.
          CLT (F3) - Distance in meters from the origin of the coordinate
          system to the join between medium 1 and 2. This distance is either
          the radius of the circle where the two media join or the distance
          out the +X axis to where the two media join in a line parallel
          to the Y axis. Specification of the circular or linear option is
          on the RP card.  See Figure 16.


          CHT (F4) - Distance in meters (positive or zero) by which the
          surface of medium 2 is below medium 1.
          (FS) & (F6) - Blank.
Notes:

   * The GD card can only be used in a data set where the GN card has been
     used, since the GN card is the only way to specify the ground parameters
     in the vicinity of the antenna (see GN card write-up). However, a
     number of GD cards may be used in the same data set with only one GN
     card.
   * GD cards may not be grouped together. If they are, only the information
     on the last card of the group is retained.
   * When a second medium is specified, a flag must also be set on the
     radiation pattern (RP) data card in order to calculate the patterns
     including the effect of the second medium. Refer to the radiation-
     pattern card write-up for details.
   * Use of the GD card does not require recalculation of the matrix or
     currents.
   * The parameters for the second medium are used only in the calculation
     of the far fields. It is possible then to set the radius of the boundary
     between the two media equal to zero and thus have the far fields
     calculated by using only the parameters of medium 2. The currents for
     this case will still have been calculated by using the parameters of
     medium 1.
   * When a model includes surface patches, the fields due to the patches
     will be calculated by using only the primary ground parameters. Hence,
     a second ground medium should not be used with patches.
Ground Parameters (GN)

Purpose: To specify the relative dielectric constant and conductivity of
ground in the vicinity of the antenna. In addition, a second set of ground
parameters for a second medium can be specified, or a radial wire ground
screen can be modeled using a reflection coefficient approximation.

Card:
     _________________________________________________________________
    /2|  5|   10|   15|   20|    30|    40|    50|    60|    70|    80|
   /  |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | GN| I1| I2  | I3  | I4  |  F1  |  F2  |  F3  |  F4  |  F5  |  F6  |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | I |  N  |  b  |  b  |  E   |  S   |      |      |      |      |
  |   | P |  R  |  l  |  l  |  P   |  I   |      |      |      |      |
  |   | E |  A  |  a  |  a  |  S   |  G   |      |      |      |      |
  |   | R |  D  |  n  |  n  |  E   |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | F |  L  |  k  |  k  |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | The numbers along the top refer to the last column in each field. |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |

Parameters:
     Integers
          IPERF (I1) - Ground-type flag. The options are:
              -1 - nullifies ground parameters previously used and sets free-
                   space condition. The remainder of the card is left blank
                   in this case.
               O - finite ground, reflection-coefficient approximation.
               1 - perfectly conducting ground.
               2 - finite ground, Sommerfeld/Norton method.
          NRADL (I2) - Number of radial wires in the ground screen
                   approximation; blank or O implies no ground screen.
          (I3) & (I4)- Blank.
     Floating Point:
          EPSE (F1) - Relative dielectric constant for ground in the
          vicinity of the antenna. Leave blank in case of a perfect ground.
          SIG (F2) - Conductivity in mhos/meter of the ground in the
          vicinity of the antenna. Leave blank in the case of a perfect
          ground. If SIG is input as a negative number, the complex
          dielectric constant Ec = Er -j*sigma/(omega*epsilonzero) is set
          to EPSR - |SIG|.
     Options for Remaining Floating Point Fields (F3-F6):
          a. For an infinite ground plane, F3 through F6 are blank.
          b. Radial wire ground screen approximation (NRADL nonzero). The
          ground screen is always centered at the origin, i.e., at (0,0,0),
          and lies in the XY plane.
               (F3) - The radius of the screen in meters.
               (F4) - Radius of the wires used in the screen, in meters.
               (F5) & (F6) - Blank.
          c. Second medium parameters (NRADL = O) for medium outside the
          region of the first medium (cliff problem). These parameters alter
          the far field patterns but do not affect the antenna impedance or
          current distribution.
               (F3) - Relative dielectric constant of medium 2.
               (F4) - Conductivity of medium 2 in mhos/meter.
               (F5) - Distance in meters from the origin of the coordinate
               system to the join between medium 1 and 2. This distance is
               either the radius of the circle where the two media join or
               the distance out the positive X axis to where the two media
               join in a line parallel to the Y axis. Specification of the
               circular or linear option is on the RP card. See Figure 16.
               (F6) - Distance in meters (positive or zero) by which the
               surface of medium 2 is below medium 1.
Notes:
   o When the Sommerfeld/Norton method is used, NEC requires an input-data
     file (TAPE21) that is generated by the program SOMNEC for the specific
     ground parameters and frequency (see section III-4). The file generated
     by SOMNEC depends only on the complex dielectric constant, Ec = Er - j*
     sigma/(omega*eps0). NEC compares Ec from the file with that determined
     by the GN card parameters and frequency. If the relative difference
     exceeds 10-3, an error message is printed. Once TAPE21 has been read
     for the first use of the Sommerfeld/Norton method, the data is retained
     until the end of the run. Subsequent data, including new data sets
     following XQ[?] cards, may use the TAPE21 data if the ground parameters
     and frequency (thus, Ec) remain unchanged. Other ground options may be
     intermixed with the Sommerfeld/Norton option.
   o The parameters of the second medium can also be specified on another
     data card whose mnemonic is GD. With the GD card, the parameters of the
     second medium can be varied and only the radiated fields need to be
     recalculated. Furthermore, if a radial wire ground screen has been
     specified on the GN card, the GD card is the only way to include a
     second medium. See the write-up of the GD card for details.
   o GN cards may not be grouped together. If they are, only the information
     on the last card will be retained.
   o Use of a GN card after any form of execute dictates structure matrix
     regeneration.
   o Only the parameters of the first medium are used when the antenna
     currents are calculated; the parameters associated with the second
     medium are not used until the calculation of the far fields. It is
     possible then to calculate the currents over one set of ground
     parameters (medium one), but to calculate the far fields over another
     set (medium two) by setting the distance to the start of medium two to
     zero. Medium one can even be a perfectly conducting ground specified by
     IPERF=1.
   o When a radial wire ground screen or a second medium is specified, it is
     necessary to indicate their presence by the first parameter on the RP
     card in order to generate the proper radiation patterns.
   o When a ground plane is specified, this fact should also be indicated on
     the GE card. Refer to the GE card for details.
   o When a model includes surface patches, the fields due to the patches
     will be calculated by using only the primary ground parameters. Hence,
     a second ground medium should not be used with patches. The radial wire
     ground screen approximation also is not implemented for patches.
Interaction Approximation Range (KH)

Purpose: To set the minimum separation distance for use of a time-saving
approximation in filling the interaction matrix.

Card:
     _________________________________________________________________
    /2|  5|   10|   15|   20|    30|    40|    50|    60|    70|    80|
   /  |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | KH| I1| I2  | I3  | I4  |  F1  |  F2  |  F3  |  F4  |  F5  |  F6  |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | B | RKH |  B  |  B  |   B  |   B  |   B  |   B  |   B  |   B  |
  |   | L |     |  L  |  L  |   L  |   L  |   L  |   L  |   L  |   L  |
  |   | A |     |  A  |  A  |   A  |   A  |   A  |   A  |   A  |   A  |
  |   | N |     |  N  |  N  |   N  |   N  |   N  |   N  |   N  |   N  |
  |   | K |     |  K  |  K  |   K  |   K  |   K  |   K  |   K  |   K  |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |  The numbers along the top refer to the last column in each field |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |

Parameters:
     Integers - None
     Decimal Numbers
          RKH (F1) - The approximation is used for interactions over
          distances greater than RKH wavelengths.

Notes:
   * If two segments or a segment and a patch are separated by more than RKH
     wavelengths, the interaction field is computed from an impulse
     approximation to the segment current. The field of a current element
     located at the segment center is used. No approximation is used for the
     field due to the surface current on a patch since the time for the
     standard calculation is very short.
   * The KH card can be placed anywhere in the data cards following the
     geometry cards (with FR, EX, LD, etc.) and affects all calculations
     requested following its occurrence. The value of RKH may be changed
     within a data set by use of a new KH card.
Loading (LD)

Purpose: To specify the impedance loading on one segment or a number of
segments. Series and parallel RLC circuits can be generated. In addition, a
finite conductivity can be specified for segments.

Card:
     _________________________________________________________________
    /2|  5|   10|   15|   20|    30|    40|    50|    60|    70|    80|
   /  |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | LD| I1| I2  | I3  | I4  |  F1  |  F2  |  F3  |  F4  |  F5  |  F6  |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | L |  L  |  L  | L   | ZLR  | ZLI  | ZLC  |  B   |  B   |  B   |
  |   | D |  D  |  D  | D   |      |      |      |  L   |  L   |  L   |
  |   | T |  T  |  T  | T   |      |      |      |  A   |  A   |  A   |
  |   | Y |  A  |  A  | A   |      |      |      |  N   |  N   |  N   |
  |   | P |  G  |  G  | G   |      |      |      |  K   |  K   |  K   |
  |   |   |     |  F  | T   |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | The numbers along the top refer to the last column in each field. |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |

Parameters:
     Integers:
          LDTYP (I1) - Determines the type of loading which is used. The
          options are:
              -1 - short all loads (used to nullify previous loads). The
                   remainder of the card is left blank.
               0 - series RLC, input ohms, henries, farads.
               1 - parallel RLC, input ohms, henries, farads.
               2 - series RLC, input ohms/meter, henries/meter,
                   farads/meter.
               3 - parallel RLC, input ohms/meter, henries/meter,
                   farads/meter.
               4 - impedance, input resistance and reactance in ohms.
               5 - wire conductivity, mhos/meter.

          LDTAG (I2) Tag number; identifies the wire section(s) to be loaded
          by its (their) tag numbers. The next two parameters can be used to
          further specify certain segment(s) on the wire section(s). Blank
          or zero here implies that absolute segment numbers are being used
          in the next two parameters to identify segments. If the next two
          parameters are blank or zero, all segments with tag LDTAG are
          loaded.

          LDTAGF (13) - Equal to m specifies the mth segment of the set of
          segments whose tag numbers equal the tag number specified in the
          previous parameter. If the previous parameter (LDTAG) is zero,
          LDTAGF then specifies an absolute segment number. If both LDTAG
          and LDTAGF are zero, all segments will be loaded.

          LDTAGT (14) - Equal to n specifies the nth segment of the set of
          segments whose tag numbers equal the tag number specified in the
          parameter LDTAG. This parameter must be greater than or equal to
          the previous parameter. The loading specified is applied to each
          of the mth through nth segments of the set of segments having tags
          equal to LDTAG. Again if LDTAG is zero, these parameters refer to
          absolute segment numbers. If LDTAGT is left blank, it is set equal
          to the previous parameter (LDTAGF).
     Floating Point Input for the Various Load Types
          a. Series RLC (LDTYP = 0)
               ZLR (Fl) - Resistance in ohms; if none, leave blank.
               ZLI (F2) - Inductance in henries; if none, leave blank.
               ZLC (F3) - Capacitance in farads; if none, leave blank.
          b. Parallel RLC (LDTYP = 1), floating point input same as a.
          c. Series RLC (LDTYP = 2) input parameters per unit length.
               ZLR - Resistance in ohms/meter; if none, leave blank.
               ZLI - Inductance in henries/meter; if none, leave blank.
               ZLC - Capacitance in farads/meter; if none, leave blank.
          d. Parallel RLC (LDTYP = 3), input parameters per unit length,
               floating-point input same as c.

          e. Impedance (LDTYP = 4)
               ZLR - Resistance in ohms.
               ZLI - Reactance in ohms.
          f. Wire conductivity (LDTYP = 5)
               ZLR - Conductivity in mhos/meter.

Notes:
   * Loading cards can be input in groups to achieve a desired structure
     loading. The maximum number of loading cards in a group is determined
     by dimensions in the program. The limit is presently 30.
   * If a segment is loaded more than once by a group of loading cards, the
     loads are assumed to be in series (impedances added), and a comment is
     printed in the output alerting the user to this fact.
   * When resistance and reactance are input (LDTYP = 4), the impedance does
     not automatically scale with frequency.
   * Loading cards used after any form of execute, require regeneration
     of the structure matrix.
   * Since loading modifies the interaction matrix, it will affect the
     conditions of plane or cylindrical symmetry of a structure. If a
     structure is geometrically symmetric and each symmetric section is to
     receive identical loading, then symmetry may be used in the solution.
     The program is set to utilize symmetry during geometry input by
     inputting the data for one symmetric section and completing the
     structure with a GR or GX card. If symmetry is used, the loading on
     only the first symmetric section is input on LD cards. The same loading
     will be assumed on the other sections. Loading should not be specified
     for segments beyond the first section when symmetry is used. If the
     sections are not identically loaded, then during geometry input the
     program must be set to a no-symmetry condition to permit independent
     loading of corresponding segments in different sections.
Near Fields (NE, NH)

Purpose: To request calculation of near electric fields in the vicinity of
         the antenna (NE) or to request near magnetic fields (NH).

Card:
         Cols.  Parameter
         ----------------------
          1- 2        NE or NH
          3- 5        I1 NEAR
          6-10        I2 NRX
         11-15        I3 NRY
         16-20        I4 NRZ
         21-30        F1 XNR
         31-40        F2 YNR
         41-50        F3 ZNR
         51-60        F4 DXNR
         61-70        F5 DYNR
         71-80        F6 DZNR

Parameters:
   Integer fields:
      NEAR (I1) - Coordinate system type.  The options are:
                 0 - rectangular coordinates will be used.
                 1 - spherical coordinates will be used.
      Remaining Integers Depend on Coordinate Type:
      a. Rectangular coordinates (NEAR = 0)
          NRX (I2) -   Number of points desired in the X, Y, and
          NRY (I3) -   Z directions respectively. X changes
          NRZ (I4) -   the most rapidly, then Y, and then Z.
                       The value 1 is assumed for any field left blank.

      b.  Spherical coordinates (NEAR = 1)
          (I2) -  Number of points desired in the r, phi, and theta
          (I3) -  directions, respectively.  r changes the most
          (I4) -  rapidly, then phi, and then theta. The value 1
                  is assumed for any field left blank.

   Floating-Point Fields:
      Their specification depends on the coordinate system chosen.
      a.  Rectangular coordinates (NEAR = 0)
          XNR  (F1) -  The (X, Y, Z) coordinate position (F1, F2,
          YNR  (F2) -  F3) respectively, in meters of the first
          ZNR  (F3) -  field point.
          DXNR (F4) -  Coordinate stepping increment in meters for the
          DYNR (F5) -  X, Y, and Z coordinates (F4, F5, F6), respectively.
          DZNR (F6) -  In stepping, X changes most rapidly, then Y, and
                       then Z.
      b.  Spherical coordinates (NEAR = 1)
            (F1)  -    The (r, phi, theta) coordinate position (Fl, F2, F3)
            (F2)  -    respectively, of the first field point.  r is in
            (F3)  -    meters, and phi and theta are in degrees.

            (F4)  -    Coordinate stepping increments for r, phi, and theta
            (F5)  -    (F4, F5, F6), respectively. The stepping increment
            (F6)  -    for r is in meters, and for phi and theta is in
                       degrees.

Notes:
   * When only one frequency is being used, near-field cards may be grouped
     together in order to calculate fields at points with various coordinate
     increments. For this case, each card encountered produces an immediate
     execution of the near-field routine and the results are printed. When
     automatic frequency stepping is being used [i.e., when the number of
     frequency steps (NFRQ) on the FR card is greater than one], only one NE
     or NH card can be used for program control inside the frequency loop.
     Furthermore, the NE or NH card does not cause an execution in this
     case. Execution will begin only after a subsequent radiation-pattern
     card (RP) or execution card (XQ) is encountered (see respective
     write-ups on both of these cards).
   * The time required to calculate the field at one point is equivalent to
     filling one row of the matrix. Thus, if there are N segments in the
     structure, the time required to calculate fields at N points is
     equivalent to the time required to fill an N x N interaction matrix.
   * The near electric field is computed by whichever form of the field
     equations was selected for filling the matrix, either the thin-wire
     approximation or extended thin-wire approximation. At large distances
     from the structure, the segment currents are treated as infinitesimal
     current elements.
   * If the field calculation point falls within a wire segment, the point
     is displaced by the radius of that segment in a direction normal to the
     plane containing each source segment and the vector from that source
     segment to the observation segment. When the specified
     field-calculation point is at the center of a segment, this convention
     is the same as is used in filling the interaction matrix. If the field
     point is on a segment axis, that segment produces no contribution to
     the H-field or the radial component of the E-field. If these components
     are of interest, the field point should be on or outside of the segment
     surface.

Networks (NT)

Purpose:
To generate a two-port nonradiating, network connected between any two
segments in the structure. The characteristics of the network are specified
by its short-circuit admittance matrix elements. For the special case of a
transmission line, a separate card is provided for convenience although the
mathematical method is the same as for networks. Refer to the TL card.

Card:
     _________________________________________________________________
    /2|  5|   10|   15|   20|    30|    40|    50|    60|    70|    80|
   /  |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | NT| I1| I2  | I3  | I4  |  F1  |  F2  |  F3  |  F4  |  F5  |  F6  |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     | Y11R | Y11I | Y12R | Y12I | Y22R | Y22I |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | The numbers along the top refer to the last column in each field. |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |

Parameters:
  Integers
     (I1) - Tag number of the segment to which port one of the network is
     connected. This tag number along with the number to be given in (I2),
     which identifies the position of the segment in a set of equal tag
     numbers, uniquely defines the segment for port one. Blank or zero here
     implies that the segment will be identified using the absolute segment
     number in the next location (12).
     (I2) - Equal to m, specifies the mth segment of the set of segments
     whose tag numbers are equal to the number set by the previous
     parameter. If the previous parameter is zero, the number in (I2) is the
     absolute segment number corresponding to end one of the network. A
     minus one in this field will nullify all previous network and
     transmission-line connections. The rest of the card is left blank in
     this case.
     (I3) & (I4) - Used in exactly the same way as (Il) & (I2) in order to
     specify the segment corresponding to port two of the network
     connection.

  Floating point:
     The six floating-point fields are used to specify the real and
     imaginary parts of three short circuit admittance matrix elements (1,
     1), (1, 2), and (2, 2), respectively. The admittance matrix is
     symmetric so it is unnecessary to specify element (2, 1).
          Y11R (F1) - Real part of element (1, 1) in mhos.
          Y11I (F2) - Imaginary part of element (1, 1) in mhos.
          Y12R (F3) - Real part of element (1, 2) in mhos.
          Y12I (F4) - Imaginary part of element (1, 2) in mhos.
          Y22R (F5) - Real part of element (2, 2) in mhos.
          Y22I (F6) - Imaginary part of element (2, 2) in mhos.

Notes:
   * Network cards may be used in groups to specify several networks on a
     structure. All network cards for a network configuration must occur
     together with no other cards (except TL cards) separating them. When
     the first NT card is read following a card other than an NT or TL card,
     all previous network and transmission line data are destroyed. Hence,
     if a set of network data is to be modified, all network data must be
     input again in the modified form. Dimensions in the program limit the
     number of networks that may be specified. In the present NEC deck, the
     number of two-port networks (including transmission lines) is limited
     to thirty, and the number of different segments having network ports
     connected to them is limited to thirty.
   * One or more network ports can be connected to any given segment.
     Multiple network ports connected to one segment are connected in
     parallel.
   * If a network is connected to a segment which has been impedance loaded
     (i.e., through the use of the LD card), the load acts in series with
     the network port.
   * A voltage source specified on the same segment as a network port is
     connected in parallel with the network port.
   * Segments can be impedance-loaded by using network cards. Consider a
     network connected from the segment to be loaded to some other arbitrary
     segment as shown in Figure 17.

     The admittance matrix elements are Y11 = 1/Zl, Y12 = 0, 
     and Y22 = infinity (computationally, a very large number
     such as 1010). The advantage of using this technique for loading is
     that the load can be changed without causing a recalculation of the
     structure matrix as is required when LD cards are used. Furthermore, in
     some cases a higher degree of structure matrix symmetry can be
     preserved because the matrix elements are not directly modified by
     networks as they are when using the LD cards. (Consider for instance a
     loop with one load where the loop is rotationally symmetric until the
     load is placed on it.) The disadvantage of the NT card form of loading
     is that the user must calculate the load admittance, and this value
     does not automatically scale with frequency. Obviously, in the above
     schematic, replacing the short with an impedance would load two
     segments. At a segment at which a voltage source is specified, the
     effect of loading by the LD and NT cards differs, however, since the
     network is in parallel with the voltage source while the load specified
     by an LD card is in series with the source.

   * Use of network cards (NT) after any form of execute requires
     recalculation of the current only.

   * NT and TL cards do not affect structure symmetry.
Next Structure (NX)

Purpose: To signal the end of data for one structure and the beginning of
data for the next.

Card:
     _________________________________________________________________
    /2|  5|   10|   15|   20|    30|    40|    50|    60|    70|    80|
   /  |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | NX| I1| I2  | I3  | I4  |  F1  |  F2  |  F3  |  F4  |  F5  |  F6  |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | The numbers along the top refer to the last column in each field. |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |

Parameters:
     NX appears in the first two columns, and the rest of the card is blank.

Notes:
     The card that directly follows the NX card must be a comment card CM.
Print Control For Charge on Wires (PQ)

Card:
     _________________________________________________________________
    /2|  5|   10|   15|   20|    30|    40|    50|    60|    70|    80|
   /  |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | PQ| I1| I2  | I3  | I4  |  F1  |  F2  |  F3  |  F4  |  F5  |  F6  |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | I |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | P |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | T |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | F |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | L |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   | Q |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | The numbers along the top refer to the last column in each field. |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |

Parameters:
     Integers
          IPTFLQ (I1) - Print control flag  [Note “Q” not “G”.]
              -1 - suppress printing of charge densities. This is the
                   default condition.
               0 - (or blank) print charge densities on segments specified by
                   the following parameters. If the following parameters are
                   blank, charge densities are printed for all segments.

          IPTAQ (I2) - Tag number of the segments for which charge densities
          will be printed.

          IPTAQF (I3) - Equal to m specifies the mth segment of the set of
          segments having tag numbers of IPTAQ. If IPTAQ is zero or blank,
          then IPTAQF refers to an absolute segment number. If IPTAQF is
          left blank, then charge density is printed for all segments.

          IPTAQT (I4) - Equal to n, specifies the nth segment of the set of
          segments having tag numbers of IPTAQ. Charge densities are printed
          for segments having tag number IPTAQ starting at the mth segment
          in the set and ending at the nth segment. If IPTAQ is zero or
          blank, then IPTAQF and IPTAQT refer to absolute segment numbers.
          If IPTAQT refer to absolute segment numbers. If IPTAQT is left
          blank, it is set equal to IPTAQF.

Page Title / Print Control for Current on Wires  (PT)

Purpose: To control the printing of currents on wire segments. Current
printing can be suppressed, limited to a few segments, or special formats
for receiving patterns can be requested.

Card:
     _________________________________________________________________
    /2|  5|   10|   15|   20|    30|    40|    50|    60|    70|    80|
   /  |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | PT| I1| I2  | I3  | I4  |  F1  |  F2  |  F3  |  F4  |  F5  |  F6  |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | The numbers along the top refer to the last column in each field. |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |

Parameters:
     Integers:

          IPTFLG (I1) - Print control flag, specifies the type of format
          used in printing segment currents. The options are:

              -2 - all currents printed. This it a default value for the
               program if the card is omitted.

              -1 - suppress printing of all wire segment currents.

               0 - current printing will be limited to the segments
               specified by the next three parameters.

               1 - currents are printed by using a format designed for a
               receiving pattern (refer to output section in this manual).
               Only currents for the segments specified by the next three
               parameters are printed.

               2 - same as for 1 above; in addition, however, the current
               for one segment will be normalized to its maximum, and the
               normalized values along with the relative strength in dB will
               be printed in a table. If the currents for more than one
               segment are being printed, only currents from the last
               segment in the group appear in the normalized table.

               3 - only normalized currents from one segment are printed for
               the receiving pattern case.

          IPTAG (I2) - Tag number of the segments for which currents will be
          printed.

          IPTAGF (I3) - Equal to m, specifies the mth segment of the set of
          segments having the tag numbers of IPTAG, at which printing of
          currents starts. If IPTAG is zero or blank, then IPTAGF refers to
          an absolute segment number. If IPTAGF is blank, the current is
          printed for all segments.

          IPTAGT (I4) - Equal to n specifies the nth segment of the set of
          segments having tag numbers of IPTAG. Currents are printed for
          segments having tag number IPTAG starting at the mth segment in
          the set and ending at the nth segment. If IPTAG is zero or blank,
          then IPTAGF and IPTAGT refer to absolute segment numbers. In
          IPTAGT is left blank, it is set to IPTAGF.

Radiation Pattern (RP)

Purpose: To specify radiation pattern sampling parameters and to cause
program execution. Options for a field computation include a radial wire
ground screen, a cliff, or surface-wave fields.

Card:
     _________________________________________________________________
    /2|  5|   10|   15|   20|    30|    40|    50|    60|    70|    80|
   /  |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | RP| I1| I2  | I3  | I4  |  F1  |  F2  |  F3  |  F4  |  F5  |  F6  |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |“XNDA”      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  | The numbers along the top refer to the last column in each field. |
  |   |   |     |     |     |      |      |      |      |      |      |

Parameters:
     Integers
        (I1) - This integer selects the mode of calculation for the radiated 
               field. Some values of (I1) will affect the meaning of the
               remaining parameters on the card. Options available for I1 are:
               O - normal mode. Space-wave fields are computed. An infinite
               ground plane is included if it has been specified previously
               on a GN card; otherwise, the antenna is in free space.

               1 - surface wave propagating along ground is added to the
               normal space wave. This option changes the meaning of some of
               the other parameters on the RP card as explained below, and
               the results appear in a special output format. Ground
               parameters must have been input on a GN card.

               The following options cause calculation of only the space
               wave but with special ground conditions. Ground conditions
               include a two-medium ground (cliff where the media join in a
               circle or a line), and a radial wire ground screen. Ground
               parameters and dimensions must be input on a GN or GD card
               before the RP card is read. The RP card only selects the
               option for inclusion in the field calculation. (Refer to the
               GN and GD cards for further explanation.)

               2 - linear cliff with antenna above upper level. Lower medium
               parameters are as specified for the second medium on the GN
               card or on the GD card.

               3 - circular cliff centered at origin of coordinate system:
               with antenna above upper level. Lower medium parameters are
               as specified for the second medium on the GN card or on the
               GD card.

               4 - radial wire ground screen centered at origin.

               5 - both radial wire ground screen and linear cliff.

               6 - both radial wire ground screen ant circular cliff.

               The field point is specified in spherical coordinates (R,
               sigma, theta) as illustrated in Figure 18, except when the
               surface wave is computed. For computing the surface wave
               field (Il = l), cylindrical coordinates (phi, theta, z) are
               used to accurately define points near the ground plane at
               large radial distances. The RP card allows automatic stepping
               of the field point to compute the field over a region about
               the antenna at uniformly spaced points. The integers I2 and
               I3 and floating point numbers Fl, F2, F3 and F4 control the
               field-point stepping.

          NTH (I2) - Number of values of theta () at which the field is to
          be computed (or number of values of z, for Il = l).

          NPH (I3) - Number of values of phi () at which the field is to be
          computed. The total number of field points requested by the card
          is NTH x NPH.  If I2 or I3 is left blank, a value of one will be
          assumed.

          XNDA (14) - This optional integer consists of four independent
          digits in columns 17, 18, 19 and 20, each having a different
          function. The mnemonic XNDA is not a variable name in the program.
          Rather, each letter represents a mnemonic for the corresponding
          digit in I4. If 11 = 1, then I4 has no effect and should be left
          blank.
          X - (column l7) controls output format.
               X = 0 major-axis, minor-axis, and total gain printed.
               X = l vertical, horizontal and total gain printed.

          N - (column 18) causes normalized gain for the specified field
          points to be printed after the standard gain output. The number of
          field points for which the normalized gain can be printed is
          limited by an array dimension in the program. In the demonstration
          program, the limit is 600 points. If the number of field points
          exceeds this limit, the remaining points will be omitted from the
          normalized gain. The gain may be normalized to its maximum or to a
          value input in field F6. The type of gain that is normalized is
          determined by the value of N as follows:
             N = 0 no normalized gain.
               = 1 major axis gain normalized.
               = 2 minor axis gain normalized.
               = 3 vertical axis gain normalized.
               = 4 horizontal axis gain normalized.
               = 5 total gain normalized.

          D - (column 19) selects either power gain or directive gain for
          both standard printing and normalization. If the structure
          excitation is an incident plane wave, the quantities printed under
          the heading “gain” will actually be the scattering cross section
          (a/lambda2 ) and will not be affected by the value of D. The
          column heading for the output will still read "power" or
          "directive gain," however.
               D = 0  power gain.
               D = 1  directive gain.

          A - (column 20) requests calculation of average power gain over
          the region covered by field points.
               A = 0  no averaging.
               A = 1  average gain computed.
               A = 2  average gain computed; printing of gain at the field
               points used for averaging is suppressed. If NTH or NPH is
               equal to one, average gain will not be computed for any value
               of A since the area of the region covered by field points
               vanishes.
     Floating Point Numbers
          THETS (F1) - Initial theta angle in degrees (initial z coordinate
          in meters if I1 = 1).

          PHIS (F2) - Initial phi angle in degrees.

          DTH (F3) - Increment for theta in degrees (increment for z in
          meters if I1 = 1).

          DPH (F4) - Increment for phi in degrees.

          RFLD (F5) - Radial distance (R) of field point from the origin in
          meters. RFLD is optional. If it is blank, the radiated electric
          field will have the factor exp(-jkR)/R omitted. If a value of R is
          specified, it should represent a point in the far-field region
          since near components of the field cannot be obtained with an RP
          card. (If I1 = 1, then RFLD represents the cylindrical coordinate
          phi in meters and is not optional. It must be greater than about
          one wavelength.)

          GNOR (F6) - Determines the gain normalization factor if
          normalization has been requested in the I4 field. If GNOR is blank
          or zero, the gain will be normalized to its maximum value. If GNOR
          is not zero, the gain w111 be normalized to the value of GNOR.

Notes:
   * The RP card will initiate program execution, causing the interaction
     matrix to be computed and factored and the structure currents to be
     computed if these operations have not already been performed. Hence,
     all required input parameters must be set before the RP card is read.
   * At a single frequency, any number of RP cards may occur in sequence so
     that different field-point spacings may be used over different regions
     of space. If automatic frequency stepping is being used (i.e., NFRQ on
     the FR card is greater than one), only one RP card will act as data
     inside the loop. Subsequent cards will calculate patterns at the final
     frequency.
   * When both NTH and NPH are greater than one, the angle theta (or Z) will
     be stepped faster than phi.
   * When a ground plane has been specified, field points should not be
     requested below the ground (theta greater than 90 degrees or Z less
     than zero.)
Transmission Line (TL)

Purpose: To generate a transmission line between any two points on the
         structure.  Characteristic impedance, length, and shunt admittance
         are the defining parameters.
Card:

         Cols.  Parameter
         ----------------------
          1- 2        TL
          3- 5        I1
          6-10        I2
         11-15        I3
         16-20        I4
         21-30        F1
         31-40        F2
         41-50        F3
         51-60        F4
         61-70        F5
         71-80        F6

Parameters:
   Integers I1-I4 - (the integer specifications are identical to those
            on the network (NT) card.)

   Floating Point -
         (F1) - The characteristic impedance of the transmission line in
                ohms.  A negative sign in front of the characteristic
                impedance will act as a flag for generating the transmission
                line with a 180 degree phase reversal (crossed line)
                if this is desired.
         (F2) - The length of transmission line in meters.  If this field
                is left blank, the program will use the straight line dis-
                tance between the specified connection points.
         The remaining four floating-point fields are used to specify
         the real and imaginary parts of the shunt admittances
         at end one and two, respectively.

         (F3) - Real part of the shunt admittance in mhos at end one.
         (F4) - Imaginary part of the shunt admittance in mhos at end one.
         (F5) - Real part of the shunt admittance in mhos at end two
         (F6) - Imaginary part of the shunt admittance in mhos at end two.

Notes:
   * The rules for transmission-line cards are the same as for network
     cards. All transmission line cards for a particular transmission line
     configuration must occur together with no other cards (except NT cards)
     separating them. When the first TL or NT card is read following a card
     other than a TL or NT card, all previous network or transmission line
     data are destroyed. Hence, if a set of TL cards is to be modified, all
     transmission-line and network data must be input again in the modified
     form. Dimensions in the program limit the number of cards in a group
     that may be specified. In the NEC demonstration deck, the number of
     two-port networks (specified by NT cards and TL cards) is limited to
     thirty, and the number of different segments having network ports
     connected to them is limited to thirty.
   * One or more networks (including transmission lines) may be connected to
     any given segment. Multiple network ports connected to one segment are
     connected in parallel.
   * If a transmission line is connected to a segment that has been
     impedance loaded (i.e., through the use of an LD card), the load acts
     in series with the line.
   * Use of a transmission-line (TL) card after any form of execute requires
     recalculation of the current only, and does not require recalculation 
     of the matrix.
   * NT and TL cards do not affect symmetry.

Write NGF File (WG)

Purpose: To write a NGF file for a structure on the file TAPE20.

Card:
          Cols  Parameter
         ----------------
          1- 2        WG
          3-80     blank

Parameters:
          None

Notes:
        * See Section III-5.

Execute (XQ)

Purpose:   To cause program execution at points in the data stream where
           execution is not automatic.  Options on the card also allow for
           automatic generation of radiation patterns in either of two
           vertical cuts.

Card:
           Cols  Parameter
          ------------------
           1- 2     XQ
           3- 5     I1
           6-80     Blank

Parameters:
   Integer
      (I1)  Options controlled by (I1) are:
            0 - no patterns requested (normal case).
            1 - generates a pattern cut in the XZ plane, i.e., phi = 0 degrees
                and theta varies from 0 degrees to 90 degrees in 1 deg. steps.
            2 - generates a pattern cut in the YZ plane, i.e., phi = 90 degrees
                theta varies from 0 degrees to 90 degrees in 1 degree steps.
            3 - generates both of the cuts described for the values
                1 and 2.
      The remainder of the card is blank.

Notes:
   * For the case of a single frequency step, four cards will automatically
     produce program execution (i.e., the program stops reading data and
     proceeds with the calculations requested to that point); the four cards
     are the execute card (XQ), the near-field cards (NE, NH), and the
     radiation-pattern card (RP). Thus, the only time the XQ card is
     mandatory, for the case of one frequency, is when only currents and
     impedances for the structure are desired. On the other hand, for the
     case of automatic frequency stepping, only the XQ card and the RP card
     cause execution. Thus, if only near-fields or currents are desired, the
     XQ card is mandatory to cause execution. Furthermore, the XQ card can
     always be used as a divider in the data after a card which produces an
     execute. For instance, if the user wished to put a blank XQ card after
     an RP card to more easily divide the data into execution groups, the XQ
     card will act as a do-nothing card.
   * The radiation-pattern generation option of the XQ card must not be used
     when a radial wire ground screen or a second medium has been specified.
     For these cases, the RP card is used where the presence of the
     additional ground parameters is indicated.
4. SOMNEC Input For Sommerfeld/Norton Ground Method

When the Sommerfeld/Norton ground option is requested on the GN card, NEC
reads interpolation tables from the file TAPE21. This file must be created
prior to the NEC run by running the separate program SOMNEC. SOMNEC reads a
single data card with the parameters:

   * EPR, SIG, FMHZ, IPT (format 3E10.3, I5)

The three decimal numbers end in columns 10, 20, and 30 and the integer IPT
must end in column 35. The parameters are:

   * EPR = relative dielectric constant of ground (Er)
   * SIG = conductivity of ground in mhos/m (S)
   * FMHZ = frequency in MHz
   * IPT = 1 to print the interpolation table
   * = 0 for no printed output.

The interpolation tables depend only on the complex dielectric constant

   * Ec = Er - j*SIG/(Omega*Epsilon0),
   * Er = EPR

If SIG is input as a negative number, the program sets

   * Ec = EPR - j|SIG| ,

and frequency is not used. The tables are written on the file TAPE21. The
central processor time to generate the tables on a CDC 7600 computer is
about 15 seconds.
5. The Numerical Green’s Function Option

With the Numerical Green's Function (NGF) option, a fixed structure and its
environment may be modeled and the factored interaction matrix saved on a
file. New parts may then be added to the model in subsequent computer runs
and the complete solution obtained without repeating calculation for the
data on the file. The main purpose of the NGF is to avoid the unnecessary
repetition of calculations when a part of a model, such as a single antenna
in a complex environment, will be modified one or more times while the
environment remains fixed. For example, when modeling antennas on ships,
several antenna designs or locations may be considered on an otherwise
unchanged ship. With the NGF, the self-interaction matrix for the fixed
environment may be computed, factored for solution, and saved on a tape or
disk file. Solution for a new antenna then requires only the evaluation of
the self-interaction matrix for the antenna, the mutual
antenna-to-environment interactions, and matrix manipulations for a
partitioned-matrix solution. When the previously written NGF file is used,
the free-space Green's function in the NEC formulation is, in effect,
replaced by the Green's function for the environment.

Another reason for using the NGF option is to exploit partial symmetry in a
structure. In a single run, a structure must be perfectly symmetric for NEC
to use symmetry in the solution. Any unsymmetric segments or patches, or
ones that lie in a symmetry plane or on the axis of rotation, will destroy
the symmetry. Such partial symmetry may be exploited to reduce solution time
by running the symmetric part of the model first and writing a NGF file. The
unsymmetric parts may then be added in a second run.

Use of the NGF option may also be warranted for large, time-consuming models
to save an expensive result for further use. Without adding new antennas, it
may be used with a new excitation or to compute new radiation, near-field,
or coupling data not computed in the original run.

To write a NGF file for the structure, the data deck is constructed as for a
normal run. After the GE card, the frequency, ground parameters, and loading
may be set by FR, GN, and LD cards. EK or KH may also be used. Other cards,
such as EX or NT that do not change the matrix, will not affect the NGF and
will not be saved on the file. After the model has been defined, a WG card
is used to fill and factor the matrix and cause the NGF data to be written
to the file TAPE20. TAPE20 should be saved after the run terminates. Other
cards may follow the WG card to define an excitation and request field
calculations as in a normal run. WG should be the first card to request
filling and factoring of the matrix, however, since it reserves array space
for the matrix in subsequent runs when the NGF is used. Hence, WG should
come before XQ, RP, NE, or NH. The FR card must not specify multiple
frequencies when a NGF is written.

To use a previously generated NGF file, the file is made available to the
program as TAPE20. The first structure-geometry data card, following the CE
card, must be a GF card to cause the program to read TAPE20. Subsequent
structure data cards define the new structure to be added to the NGF
structure. All types of structure geometry data cards may be used, although
GM, GR, GX, and GS will affect new structure but not that from the NGF file.
GR and GX will have their usual effect on the new structure but will not
result in use of symmetry in the solution. Symmetry may be used in writing
the NGF file but not for new structures used with the NGF.

For connections between the new structure and NGF structure, the new segment
ends or patch centers are made to coincide with the NGF segment ends or
patch centers as in a normal run. The rules still apply that only a single
segment may connect to a given patch and a segment may have a patch
connection on only one of its ends. Also, a wire may never connect to a
patch formed by subdividing another patch for a previous connection.

Following the GE card the program control cards may be used as usual, with
the exception that FR and GN cards may not be used. The parameters from
these cards are taken from the NGF file and cannot be changed. LD cards may
be used to load new segments but not segments in the NGF. If integers I3 and
I4 on a LD card are blank, the card will load all new segments (new segments
with tag LDTAG if I2 is not zero) but not NGF segments. If I2, I3 and I4
select a specific NGF segment, the run will terminate with an error message.
The effect of loading on NGF segments may be obtained with an NT card, since
NT (and TL) may connect to either new or NGF segments.

Computation time for a run using a NGF file may be estimated from the
formulas in Section V by evaluating the time to run the complete structure
and subtracting time to fill and factor the matrix for the NGF part of the
structure alone (T1 and T2). If the new structure connects to the NGF
structure, new unknowns — in addition to those for the new segments and
patches — are produced and should be included in the time estimate for the
complete structure. If a new segment or patch connects to a NGF segment, the
current expansion function for the NGF segment is modified. One new unknown
is then added to the matrix equation to represent the modified expansion
function and suppress the old expansion function. If a new segment connects
to a NGF patch, 10 new unknowns are produced in addition to that for the new
segment. Four new patches are automatically generated at the connection
point accounting for eight unknowns. The remaining two new unknowns are
needed to suppress the current on the old patch that has been replaced.

Although connection to a NGF segment modifies the old basis function, the
current on the segment will be printed in its normal location in the table
of segment currents. When a new wire connects to a NGF patch, the patch is
divided into four new patches that will appear after the user-defined
patches in the patch data. The original patch will be listed in the tables
but with nearly zero current. Also, the Z coordinates of the original patch
will be set to 9999.
Section IV - NEC Output

Typical NEC output is illustrated in this section with examples that
exercise most of the options available. In addition to demonstrating the use
of the code and typical output, the results may be used to check the
operation of the code when it is put in use on a new computer system. Most
of the output is self-explanatory. The general form is outlined below, the
particular points are discussed with the examples in which they occur.

The output follows the form of the input data, starting with the descriptive
comments, followed by geometry data and then requested computations. Under
the heading "STRUCTURE SPECIFICATION" is a list of the geometry data cards.
The heading on the table is for a GW card, giving the X,Y, and Z coordinates
of the wire ends, the radius, and the number of segments. Under the heading
"WIRE NO." is a count of the number of GW cards. Data from other geometry
cards are printed in the table with a label identifying the card. For a
patch, the patch number is printed under "WIRE NO." followed by a letter to
indicate the shape option - P for arbitrary, R for rectangular, T for
triangular, and Q for quadrilateral.

After a GE card is read, a summary of the number of segments and patches is
printed. The symmetry flag is zero for no symmetry, positive for planar
symmetry, and negative for rotational symmetry. A table of multiple-wire
junctions lists all junctions at which three or more wires join. the number
of each connection segment is printed preceded by a minus sign if the
current reference direction is out of the junction

Data for individual segments are printed under "SEGMENTATION DATA,"
including angles, alpha and beta, which are defined the same as for the
patch normal vector (see Figure 5). The connection data shows the connection
condition at each segment. "I-" is the number of segment connected to the
first end of segment I. If more than one segment connects to this junction,
then I- will be the first connected segment following I in the sequence of
segments. The numbers under "I+" give the same information for the second
end of segment I. If the connection number is positive, the reference
directions of the connected segments are parallel. If the number is negative,
they are opposed (first end to first end, or second end to second end.) A
zero indicates a free wire end, while if it is equal to I, that end of
segment I is connected to a ground plane. If it is greater than 10,000, the
end is connected to a surface and (I±)-10,000 is the number of the first
of the four patches around the connection point.

When patches are used, the next section is "SURFACE PATCH DATA." This
includes the coordinates of the patch center, components of the unit normal
vector, and patch area. Components of the unit tangent vectors, t1 and t2
(see section II) are also printed for use in reading the surface currents
printed later.

The data cards following the geometry cards are printed exactly as they are
read by the program. When a card requesting computations is encountered,
information on ground parameters and loading is printed, followed by
currents. The line "APPROXIMATE INTEGRATION..." gives the separation
distance, set by a KH card, at which the Hertzian dipole approximation is
used for the electric field due to a segment. If the extended thin-wire
kernel has been requested by an EK card, this is also noted at this point in
the output. Under "MATRIX TIMING" is printed the time to fill and factor
the interaction matrix.

If one or more voltage sources have been specified, the voltage, current,
impedance, admittance and input power are printed for each driving point. If
the voltage source is the current-slope-discontinuity type, this is noted by
"*" after the tag number in the input parameters table (see Example 2). The
antenna input parameters are followed by a table giving the current at the
center of each segment. This table includes the coordinates at the segment
centers and segment lengths in units of wavelength. If the model includes
patches, a table of patch currents is printed giving the surface current in
components along the tangent vectors t1 and t2 and X, Y, and Z components.

If there are voltage sources on a model, a power budget is printed following
the current tables. The input power here is the total power supplied by all
voltage sources. The structure loss is ohmic loss in wires, while the
network loss is the total power into all network and transmission line
ports, assuming no radiated from networks or transmission lines. Finally,
the radiated power is computed as input power minus structure and network
loss.

Radiated fields or near-fields requested in the input data are printed
following the current tables. In the normal radiation-pattern format,
transmitting antenna gains are printed in dB in the components requested on
the RP card. If an incident-field excitation is used, rather than a voltage
source, the gain columns will contain the bistatic scattering cross section
(sigma/lamda2). For very small gains, the number -999.99 is printed.

The radiation-pattern format also includes the radiated electric field in
theta and phi components. These are labeled with the units "volts/m" for
E(R,theta,phi). Unless the range, Rm, is specified on the RP card, however,
the quantity printed is the limit of RE(R, theta, phi) as R approaches
infinity, having units of volts. the polarization is printed in a format for
general elliptic polarization, including axial ratio (minor axis/major
axis), tilt angle of the major axis (Eta in Figure 14), and sense of
rotation (right-hand, left-hand, or linear).

In addition to these basic formats, there are a number of special formats
for optional calculations. Many of these occur in the following examples.
Examples 1 through 4

Examples 1 through 4 are simple cases intended to illustrate the basic
formats. Example 1 includes a calculation of near-electric-field along the
wire. When the field is computed at the center of a segment without an
applied field or loading, the Z-component of electric field is small since
the solution procedure enforces the boundary condition at these points.
This is a check that the program is operating correctly. The values would be
still smaller if the field points were more precisely at the segment
centers. The radial, or X, components of the near-field can also be compared
with the charge densities at the segment centers (rho=2*pi*a*epsilon0*Ex).
If the fields were computed along the wire axis, the radial field would be
set to zero. For a nonplanar structure, however, computation along the axis
is the only way to reproduce the conditions of the current solution and
obtain small fields at the match points.

In Example 2 the wire has an even number of segments so that a
charge-discontinuity voltage source can be used at the center. The symbol
"*" in the table of antenna input parameters is a reminder that this type of
source has been used. Three frequencies are run for this case and the EX
card option is used to collect and normalize the input impedances. At the
end of Example 2 the wire is given the conductivity of aluminum. This has a
significant effect since the wire is relatively thin.

Example 3 is a vertical dipole over ground. Since the wire is thick the
extended thin-wire approximation has been used. Computation of the average
power gain is requested on the RP cards. Over a perfectly conductive ground
the average power gain should be 2. The computed result differs by about
1.5%, probably due to the 10-degree steps used in integrating the radiated
power. For a more complex structure, the average gain can provide a check on
the accuracy of the computed input impedance over a perfect ground where it
should equal 2 or in free space where it should equal 1. Example 3 also
includes a finitely conducting ground where the average gain of 0.72
indicates that only 36% of the power leaving the antenna is going into the
space wave. The formats for normalized gain and the combined space-wave and
ground-wave fields are illustrated. At the end of example 3, the wire is
excited with an incident wave at 10-degree angles and the PT card option is
used to print receiving antenna patterns.

Example 4 includes both patches and wires. Although the structure is over a
perfect ground, the average power gain is 1.8. This indicates that the input
impedance is inaccurate, probably due to the crude patch model used for the
box. Since there is no ohmic loss, a more accurate input resistance can be
obtained as:

Radiated Power = (1/2)*(avg. gain)*(computed input power)
               = 1.016 (10-3)W
Radiation resistance = 2*(radiated power)/|Isource|2
                     = 162.6 ohms

Since the input power used in computing the gains in the radiated pattern
table is to large by 0.46 dB, the gains can be corrected by adding this
factor.
Example 1  (Courier 7-point font and narrow page margins are used in this document to enable “portrait” printing on 8.5 x 11 inch paper, of NEC’s ordinarily too-wide, line-printer, output format.)
Input Card Deck:
CEEXAMPLE 1.  CENTER FED LINEAR ANTENNA
GW  0,7,0.,0.,-.25,0.,0.,.25,.001
GE
EX  0    0    4    0    1.
XQ
LD  0    0    4    4   10.     3.000E-09 5.300E-11
PQ
NE  0    1    1   15   .001      0         0          0.        0.      .01786
EN
Line-Printer Output:
1



                                 ************************************

                                    NUMERICAL ELECTROMAGNETICS CODE

                                 ************************************




                                     - - - - COMMENTS - - - -


                         EXAMPLE 1.  CENTER FED LINEAR ANTENNA                                       




                                 - - - STRUCTURE SPECIFICATION - - -

                                     COORDINATES MUST BE INPUT IN
                                     METERS OR BE SCALED TO METERS
                                     BEFORE STRUCTURE INPUT IS ENDED


  WIRE                                                                               NO. OF    FIRST  LAST     TAG
  NO.        X1         Y1         Z1          X2         Y2         Z2      RADIUS   SEG.     SEG.   SEG.     NO.
     1     .00000     .00000    -.25000      .00000     .00000     .25000     .00100      7        1     7       0

   TOTAL SEGMENTS USED=    7     NO. SEG. IN A SYMMETRIC CELL=    7     SYMMETRY FLAG=  0


         - MULTIPLE WIRE JUNCTIONS -
 JUNCTION    SEGMENTS  (- FOR END 1, + FOR END 2)
  NONE




                                 - - - - SEGMENTATION DATA - - - -

                                        COORDINATES IN METERS

                         I+ AND I- INDICATE THE SEGMENTS BEFORE AND AFTER I


  SEG.   COORDINATES OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.     ORIENTATION ANGLES    WIRE    CONNECTION DATA   TAG
  NO.       X         Y         Z       LENGTH     ALPHA     BETA      RADIUS    I-   I    I+    NO.
     1    .00000    .00000   -.21429    .07143   90.00000    .00000    .00100     0    1    2      0
     2    .00000    .00000   -.14286    .07143   90.00000    .00000    .00100     1    2    3      0
     3    .00000    .00000   -.07143    .07143   90.00000    .00000    .00100     2    3    4      0
     4    .00000    .00000    .00000    .07143   90.00000    .00000    .00100     3    4    5      0
     5    .00000    .00000    .07143    .07143   90.00000    .00000    .00100     4    5    6      0
     6    .00000    .00000    .14286    .07143   90.00000    .00000    .00100     5    6    7      0
     7    .00000    .00000    .21429    .07143   90.00000    .00000    .00100     6    7    0      0






 ***** DATA CARD NO.  1   EX   0     0     4     0  1.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  2   XQ   0     0     0     0  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00

                                 - - - - - - FREQUENCY - - - - - -

                                    FREQUENCY= 2.9980E+02 MHZ
                                    WAVELENGTH= 1.0000E+00 METERS




                    APPROXIMATE INTEGRATION EMPLOYED FOR SEGMENTS MORE THAN   1.000 WAVELENGTHS APART



                               - - - STRUCTURE IMPEDANCE LOADING - - -

                                   THIS STRUCTURE IS NOT LOADED



                                  - - - ANTENNA ENVIRONMENT - - -

                                            FREE SPACE



                                - - - MATRIX TIMING - - -

                        FILL=     .067 SEC.,  FACTOR=     .000 SEC.



                                          - - - ANTENNA INPUT PARAMETERS - - -

   TAG   SEG.    VOLTAGE (VOLTS)         CURRENT (AMPS)         IMPEDANCE (OHMS)        ADMITTANCE (MHOS)      POWER
   NO.   NO.    REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.     (WATTS)
     0     4 1.00000E+00 0.00000E+00 9.20585E-03-5.15474E-03 8.26979E+01 4.63060E+01 9.20585E-03-5.15474E-03 4.60292E-03



                             - - - CURRENTS AND LOCATION - - -

                                 DISTANCES IN WAVELENGTHS


  SEG.  TAG    COORD. OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.            - - - CURRENT (AMPS) - - -
  NO.   NO.     X        Y        Z      LENGTH     REAL        IMAG.       MAG.        PHASE
     1    0    .0000    .0000   -.2143   .07143   2.3592E-03 -1.6881E-03  2.9010E-03  -35.584
     2    0    .0000    .0000   -.1429   .07143   5.9998E-03 -4.0463E-03  7.2367E-03  -33.996
     3    0    .0000    .0000   -.0714   .07143   8.3711E-03 -5.1857E-03  9.8472E-03  -31.777
     4    0    .0000    .0000    .0000   .07143   9.2058E-03 -5.1547E-03  1.0551E-02  -29.246
     5    0    .0000    .0000    .0714   .07143   8.3711E-03 -5.1857E-03  9.8472E-03  -31.777
     6    0    .0000    .0000    .1429   .07143   5.9998E-03 -4.0463E-03  7.2367E-03  -33.996
     7    0    .0000    .0000    .2143   .07143   2.3592E-03 -1.6881E-03  2.9010E-03  -35.584



                                        - - - POWER BUDGET - - -

                                           INPUT POWER   = 4.6029E-03 WATTS
                                           RADIATED POWER= 4.6029E-03 WATTS
                                           STRUCTURE LOSS= 0.0000E+00 WATTS
                                           NETWORK LOSS  = 0.0000E+00 WATTS
                                           EFFICIENCY    = 100.00 PERCENT






 ***** DATA CARD NO.  3   LD   0     0     4     4  1.00000E+01  3.00000E-09  5.30000E-11  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  4   PQ   0     0     0     0  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  5   NE   0     1     1    15  1.00000E-03  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  1.78600E-02



                               - - - STRUCTURE IMPEDANCE LOADING - - -


       LOCATION          RESISTANCE   INDUCTANCE  CAPACITANCE       IMPEDANCE (OHMS)     CONDUCTIVITY    TYPE
    ITAG FROM THRU          OHMS        HENRYS       FARADS        REAL      IMAGINARY    MHOS/METER

            4    4       .1000E+02    .3000E-08    .5300E-10                                           SERIES 



                                  - - - ANTENNA ENVIRONMENT - - -

                                            FREE SPACE



                                - - - MATRIX TIMING - - -

                        FILL=     .067 SEC.,  FACTOR=     .000 SEC.



                                          - - - ANTENNA INPUT PARAMETERS - - -

   TAG   SEG.    VOLTAGE (VOLTS)         CURRENT (AMPS)         IMPEDANCE (OHMS)        ADMITTANCE (MHOS)      POWER
   NO.   NO.    REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.     (WATTS)
     0     4 1.00000E+00 0.00000E+00 8.95465E-03-4.05149E-03 9.26979E+01 4.19407E+01 8.95465E-03-4.05149E-03 4.47733E-03



                             - - - CURRENTS AND LOCATION - - -

                                 DISTANCES IN WAVELENGTHS


  SEG.  TAG    COORD. OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.            - - - CURRENT (AMPS) - - -
  NO.   NO.     X        Y        Z      LENGTH     REAL        IMAG.       MAG.        PHASE
     1    0    .0000    .0000   -.2143   .07143   2.3241E-03 -1.3790E-03  2.7024E-03  -30.682
     2    0    .0000    .0000   -.1429   .07143   5.8908E-03 -3.2779E-03  6.7413E-03  -29.093
     3    0    .0000    .0000   -.0714   .07143   8.1824E-03 -4.1467E-03  9.1731E-03  -26.875
     4    0    .0000    .0000    .0000   .07143   8.9547E-03 -4.0515E-03  9.8285E-03  -24.344
     5    0    .0000    .0000    .0714   .07143   8.1824E-03 -4.1467E-03  9.1731E-03  -26.875
     6    0    .0000    .0000    .1429   .07143   5.8908E-03 -3.2779E-03  6.7413E-03  -29.093
     7    0    .0000    .0000    .2143   .07143   2.3241E-03 -1.3790E-03  2.7024E-03  -30.682



                                  - - - CHARGE DENSITIES - - -

                                    DISTANCES IN WAVELENGTHS


  SEG.  TAG    COORD. OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.          CHARGE DENSITY (COULOMBS/METER)
  NO.   NO.     X        Y        Z      LENGTH     REAL        IMAG.       MAG.        PHASE
     1    0    .0000    .0000   -.2143   .07143   1.8292E-11  3.1761E-11  3.6652E-11   60.061
     2    0    .0000    .0000   -.1429   .07143   1.0429E-11  2.2040E-11  2.4383E-11   64.676
     3    0    .0000    .0000   -.0714   .07143   2.1140E-12  1.1638E-11  1.1829E-11   79.705
     4    0    .0000    .0000    .0000   .07143   5.1684E-19  2.3814E-19  5.6906E-19   24.738
     5    0    .0000    .0000    .0714   .07143  -2.1140E-12 -1.1638E-11  1.1829E-11 -100.295
     6    0    .0000    .0000    .1429   .07143  -1.0429E-11 -2.2040E-11  2.4383E-11 -115.324
     7    0    .0000    .0000    .2143   .07143  -1.8292E-11 -3.1761E-11  3.6652E-11 -119.939



                                        - - - POWER BUDGET - - -

                                           INPUT POWER   = 4.4773E-03 WATTS
                                           RADIATED POWER= 3.9943E-03 WATTS
                                           STRUCTURE LOSS= 4.8300E-04 WATTS
                                           NETWORK LOSS  = 0.0000E+00 WATTS
                                           EFFICIENCY    =  89.21 PERCENT



                                   - - - NEAR ELECTRIC FIELDS - - -

            -  LOCATION  -                     -  EX  -               -  EY  -               -  EZ  -
        X          Y          Z          MAGNITUDE   PHASE      MAGNITUDE   PHASE      MAGNITUDE   PHASE
      METERS     METERS     METERS        VOLTS/M   DEGREES      VOLTS/M   DEGREES      VOLTS/M   DEGREES
        .0010      .0000      .0000     1.0228E-05    24.74    0.0000E+00      .00    1.3042E+01  -175.10
        .0010      .0000      .0179     5.5442E+01   -66.31    0.0000E+00      .00    1.2537E+01  -175.08
        .0010      .0000      .0357     1.0968E+02   -67.15    0.0000E+00      .00    6.7271E+00  -175.46
        .0010      .0000      .0536     1.5608E+02   -88.85    0.0000E+00      .00    8.4339E-01  -179.75
        .0010      .0000      .0714     2.1267E+02  -100.30    0.0000E+00      .00    4.2135E-04    -6.13
        .0010      .0000      .0893     2.7147E+02  -106.86    0.0000E+00      .00    3.4497E-01    -8.87
        .0010      .0000      .1072     3.2920E+02  -111.08    0.0000E+00      .00    2.8000E-01    22.83
        .0010      .0000      .1250     3.8592E+02  -113.51    0.0000E+00      .00    2.2076E-01    74.41
        .0010      .0000      .1429     4.3835E+02  -115.33    0.0000E+00      .00    3.0905E-04   -94.14
        .0010      .0000      .1607     4.8563E+02  -116.77    0.0000E+00      .00    2.1937E-01  -106.41
        .0010      .0000      .1786     5.2800E+02  -117.97    0.0000E+00      .00    1.9750E+00    57.57
        .0010      .0000      .1965     5.9664E+02  -119.06    0.0000E+00      .00    3.3113E+00    58.63
        .0010      .0000      .2143     6.5880E+02  -119.94    0.0000E+00      .00    9.9556E-03  -121.24
        .0010      .0000      .2322     7.1246E+02  -120.67    0.0000E+00      .00    1.0680E+01  -121.66
        .0010      .0000      .2500     5.5195E+02  -121.29    0.0000E+00      .00    3.8032E+02  -121.43






 ***** DATA CARD NO.  6   EN   0     0     0     0  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00

 RUN TIME =      .650

Example 2
Input card deck:
CMEXAMPLE 2.  CENTER FED LINEAR ANTENNA.
CM            CURRENT SLOPE DISCONTINUITY SOURCE.
CM            1. THIN PERFECTLY CONDUCTING WIRE 
CE            2. THIN ALUMINUM WIRE
GW  0    8   0.        0.        -.25      0.        0.        .25      .00001
GE
FR  0    3    0    0   200.      50.
EX  5    0    5    1   1.        0.        50.
XQ
LD  5    0    0    0 3.720E+07
FR  0    1    0    0   300.
EX  5    0    5    0   1.
XQ
EN

Output printout:
1



                                 ************************************

                                    NUMERICAL ELECTROMAGNETICS CODE

                                 ************************************




                                     - - - - COMMENTS - - - -


                         EXAMPLE 2.  CENTER FED LINEAR ANTENNA.                                      
                                     CURRENT SLOPE DISCONTINUITY SOURCE.                             
                                     1. THIN PERFECTLY CONDUCTING WIRE                               
                                     2. THIN ALUMINUM WIRE                                           




                                 - - - STRUCTURE SPECIFICATION - - -

                                     COORDINATES MUST BE INPUT IN
                                     METERS OR BE SCALED TO METERS
                                     BEFORE STRUCTURE INPUT IS ENDED


  WIRE                                                                               NO. OF    FIRST  LAST     TAG
  NO.        X1         Y1         Z1          X2         Y2         Z2      RADIUS   SEG.     SEG.   SEG.     NO.
     1     .00000     .00000    -.25000      .00000     .00000     .25000     .00001      8        1     8       0

   TOTAL SEGMENTS USED=    8     NO. SEG. IN A SYMMETRIC CELL=    8     SYMMETRY FLAG=  0


         - MULTIPLE WIRE JUNCTIONS -
 JUNCTION    SEGMENTS  (- FOR END 1, + FOR END 2)
  NONE




                                 - - - - SEGMENTATION DATA - - - -

                                        COORDINATES IN METERS

                         I+ AND I- INDICATE THE SEGMENTS BEFORE AND AFTER I


  SEG.   COORDINATES OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.     ORIENTATION ANGLES    WIRE    CONNECTION DATA   TAG
  NO.       X         Y         Z       LENGTH     ALPHA     BETA      RADIUS    I-   I    I+    NO.
     1    .00000    .00000   -.21875    .06250   90.00000    .00000    .00001     0    1    2      0
     2    .00000    .00000   -.15625    .06250   90.00000    .00000    .00001     1    2    3      0
     3    .00000    .00000   -.09375    .06250   90.00000    .00000    .00001     2    3    4      0
     4    .00000    .00000   -.03125    .06250   90.00000    .00000    .00001     3    4    5      0
     5    .00000    .00000    .03125    .06250   90.00000    .00000    .00001     4    5    6      0
     6    .00000    .00000    .09375    .06250   90.00000    .00000    .00001     5    6    7      0
     7    .00000    .00000    .15625    .06250   90.00000    .00000    .00001     6    7    8      0
     8    .00000    .00000    .21875    .06250   90.00000    .00000    .00001     7    8    0      0






 ***** DATA CARD NO.  1   FR   0     3     0     0  2.00000E+02  5.00000E+01  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  2   EX   5     0     5     1  1.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  5.00000E+01  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  3   XQ   0     0     0     0  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00




                                 - - - - - - FREQUENCY - - - - - -

                                    FREQUENCY= 2.0000E+02 MHZ
                                    WAVELENGTH= 1.4990E+00 METERS




                    APPROXIMATE INTEGRATION EMPLOYED FOR SEGMENTS MORE THAN   1.000 WAVELENGTHS APART



                               - - - STRUCTURE IMPEDANCE LOADING - - -

                                   THIS STRUCTURE IS NOT LOADED



                                  - - - ANTENNA ENVIRONMENT - - -

                                            FREE SPACE



                                - - - MATRIX TIMING - - -

                        FILL=     .100 SEC.,  FACTOR=     .000 SEC.



                                          - - - ANTENNA INPUT PARAMETERS - - -

   TAG   SEG.    VOLTAGE (VOLTS)         CURRENT (AMPS)         IMPEDANCE (OHMS)        ADMITTANCE (MHOS)      POWER
   NO.   NO.    REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.     (WATTS)
     0 *   5 1.00000E+00 0.00000E+00 6.64061E-05 1.57934E-03 2.65762E+01-6.32060E+02 6.64061E-05 1.57934E-03 3.32031E-05



                             - - - CURRENTS AND LOCATION - - -

                                 DISTANCES IN WAVELENGTHS


  SEG.  TAG    COORD. OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.            - - - CURRENT (AMPS) - - -
  NO.   NO.     X        Y        Z      LENGTH     REAL        IMAG.       MAG.        PHASE
     1    0    .0000    .0000   -.1459   .04169   1.5369E-05  2.5220E-04  2.5267E-04   86.513
     2    0    .0000    .0000   -.1042   .04169   3.9856E-05  7.0589E-04  7.0702E-04   86.768
     3    0    .0000    .0000   -.0625   .04169   5.6673E-05  1.1008E-03  1.1023E-03   87.053
     4    0    .0000    .0000   -.0208   .04169   6.5314E-05  1.4319E-03  1.4334E-03   87.388
     5    0    .0000    .0000    .0208   .04169   6.5314E-05  1.4319E-03  1.4334E-03   87.388
     6    0    .0000    .0000    .0625   .04169   5.6673E-05  1.1008E-03  1.1023E-03   87.053
     7    0    .0000    .0000    .1042   .04169   3.9856E-05  7.0589E-04  7.0702E-04   86.768
     8    0    .0000    .0000    .1459   .04169   1.5369E-05  2.5220E-04  2.5267E-04   86.513



                                        - - - POWER BUDGET - - -

                                           INPUT POWER   = 3.3203E-05 WATTS
                                           RADIATED POWER= 3.3203E-05 WATTS
                                           STRUCTURE LOSS= 0.0000E+00 WATTS
                                           NETWORK LOSS  = 0.0000E+00 WATTS
                                           EFFICIENCY    = 100.00 PERCENT




                                 - - - - - - FREQUENCY - - - - - -

                                    FREQUENCY= 2.5000E+02 MHZ
                                    WAVELENGTH= 1.1992E+00 METERS




                    APPROXIMATE INTEGRATION EMPLOYED FOR SEGMENTS MORE THAN   1.000 WAVELENGTHS APART



                               - - - STRUCTURE IMPEDANCE LOADING - - -

                                   THIS STRUCTURE IS NOT LOADED



                                  - - - ANTENNA ENVIRONMENT - - -

                                            FREE SPACE



                                - - - MATRIX TIMING - - -

                        FILL=     .100 SEC.,  FACTOR=     .000 SEC.



                                          - - - ANTENNA INPUT PARAMETERS - - -

   TAG   SEG.    VOLTAGE (VOLTS)         CURRENT (AMPS)         IMPEDANCE (OHMS)        ADMITTANCE (MHOS)      POWER
   NO.   NO.    REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.     (WATTS)
     0 *   5 1.00000E+00 0.00000E+00 6.16984E-04 3.56466E-03 4.71431E+01-2.72372E+02 6.16984E-04 3.56466E-03 3.08492E-04



                             - - - CURRENTS AND LOCATION - - -

                                 DISTANCES IN WAVELENGTHS


  SEG.  TAG    COORD. OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.            - - - CURRENT (AMPS) - - -
  NO.   NO.     X        Y        Z      LENGTH     REAL        IMAG.       MAG.        PHASE
     1    0    .0000    .0000   -.1824   .05212   1.3629E-04  6.4701E-04  6.6120E-04   78.105
     2    0    .0000    .0000   -.1303   .05212   3.6169E-04  1.7863E-03  1.8225E-03   78.553
     3    0    .0000    .0000   -.0782   .05212   5.2215E-04  2.7057E-03  2.7557E-03   79.077
     4    0    .0000    .0000   -.0261   .05212   6.0627E-04  3.3503E-03  3.4047E-03   79.743
     5    0    .0000    .0000    .0261   .05212   6.0627E-04  3.3503E-03  3.4047E-03   79.743
     6    0    .0000    .0000    .0782   .05212   5.2215E-04  2.7057E-03  2.7557E-03   79.077
     7    0    .0000    .0000    .1303   .05212   3.6169E-04  1.7863E-03  1.8225E-03   78.553
     8    0    .0000    .0000    .1824   .05212   1.3629E-04  6.4701E-04  6.6120E-04   78.105



                                        - - - POWER BUDGET - - -

                                           INPUT POWER   = 3.0849E-04 WATTS
                                           RADIATED POWER= 3.0849E-04 WATTS
                                           STRUCTURE LOSS= 0.0000E+00 WATTS
                                           NETWORK LOSS  = 0.0000E+00 WATTS
                                           EFFICIENCY    = 100.00 PERCENT




                                 - - - - - - FREQUENCY - - - - - -

                                    FREQUENCY= 3.0000E+02 MHZ
                                    WAVELENGTH= 9.9933E-01 METERS




                    APPROXIMATE INTEGRATION EMPLOYED FOR SEGMENTS MORE THAN   1.000 WAVELENGTHS APART



                               - - - STRUCTURE IMPEDANCE LOADING - - -

                                   THIS STRUCTURE IS NOT LOADED



                                  - - - ANTENNA ENVIRONMENT - - -

                                            FREE SPACE



                                - - - MATRIX TIMING - - -

                        FILL=     .100 SEC.,  FACTOR=     .000 SEC.



                                          - - - ANTENNA INPUT PARAMETERS - - -

   TAG   SEG.    VOLTAGE (VOLTS)         CURRENT (AMPS)         IMPEDANCE (OHMS)        ADMITTANCE (MHOS)      POWER
   NO.   NO.    REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.     (WATTS)
     0 *   5 1.00000E+00 0.00000E+00 9.39012E-03-5.32909E-03 8.05511E+01 4.57144E+01 9.39012E-03-5.32909E-03 4.69506E-03



                             - - - CURRENTS AND LOCATION - - -

                                 DISTANCES IN WAVELENGTHS


  SEG.  TAG    COORD. OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.            - - - CURRENT (AMPS) - - -
  NO.   NO.     X        Y        Z      LENGTH     REAL        IMAG.       MAG.        PHASE
     1    0    .0000    .0000   -.2189   .06254   1.9607E-03 -1.2799E-03  2.3415E-03  -33.135
     2    0    .0000    .0000   -.1564   .06254   5.3517E-03 -3.4033E-03  6.3422E-03  -32.454
     3    0    .0000    .0000   -.0938   .06254   7.8678E-03 -4.8421E-03  9.2384E-03  -31.610
     4    0    .0000    .0000   -.0313   .06254   9.2168E-03 -5.4147E-03  1.0690E-02  -30.433
     5    0    .0000    .0000    .0313   .06254   9.2168E-03 -5.4147E-03  1.0690E-02  -30.433
     6    0    .0000    .0000    .0938   .06254   7.8678E-03 -4.8421E-03  9.2384E-03  -31.610
     7    0    .0000    .0000    .1564   .06254   5.3517E-03 -3.4033E-03  6.3422E-03  -32.454
     8    0    .0000    .0000    .2189   .06254   1.9607E-03 -1.2799E-03  2.3415E-03  -33.135



                                        - - - POWER BUDGET - - -

                                           INPUT POWER   = 4.6951E-03 WATTS
                                           RADIATED POWER= 4.6951E-03 WATTS
                                           STRUCTURE LOSS= 0.0000E+00 WATTS
                                           NETWORK LOSS  = 0.0000E+00 WATTS
                                           EFFICIENCY    = 100.00 PERCENT



                                    - - - INPUT IMPEDANCE DATA - - -
                                             SOURCE SEGMENT NO.   5
                                             NORMALIZATION FACTOR= 5.00000E+01

       FREQ.             -  -  UNNORMALIZED IMPEDANCE  -  -                     -_ -  NORMALIZED IMPEDANCE  -  -
                   RESISTANCE    REACTANCE      MAGNITUDE    PHASE       RESISTANCE    REACTANCE      MAGNITUDE    PHASE
        MHZ           OHMS          OHMS           OHMS     DEGREES                                               DEGREES

     200.000     2.65762E+01  -6.32060E+02    6.32619E+02   -87.59     5.31523E-01  -1.26412E+01    1.26524E+01   -87.59
     250.000     4.71431E+01  -2.72372E+02    2.76422E+02   -80.18     9.42862E-01  -5.44744E+00    5.52843E+00   -80.18
     300.000     8.05511E+01   4.57144E+01    9.26190E+01    29.58     1.61102E+00   9.14289E-01    1.85238E+00    29.58






 ***** DATA CARD NO.  4   LD   5     0     0     0  3.72000E+07  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  5   FR   0     1     0     0  3.00000E+02  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  6   EX   5     0     5     0  1.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  7   XQ   0     0     0     0  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00




                                 - - - - - - FREQUENCY - - - - - -

                                    FREQUENCY= 3.0000E+02 MHZ
                                    WAVELENGTH= 9.9933E-01 METERS




                    APPROXIMATE INTEGRATION EMPLOYED FOR SEGMENTS MORE THAN   1.000 WAVELENGTHS APART



                               - - - STRUCTURE IMPEDANCE LOADING - - -


       LOCATION          RESISTANCE   INDUCTANCE  CAPACITANCE       IMPEDANCE (OHMS)     CONDUCTIVITY    TYPE
    ITAG FROM THRU          OHMS        HENRYS       FARADS        REAL      IMAGINARY    MHOS/METER

     ALL                                                                                  .3720E+08     WIRE  



                                  - - - ANTENNA ENVIRONMENT - - -

                                            FREE SPACE



                                - - - MATRIX TIMING - - -

                        FILL=     .100 SEC.,  FACTOR=     .000 SEC.



                                          - - - ANTENNA INPUT PARAMETERS - - -

   TAG   SEG.    VOLTAGE (VOLTS)         CURRENT (AMPS)         IMPEDANCE (OHMS)        ADMITTANCE (MHOS)      POWER
   NO.   NO.    REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.     (WATTS)
     0 *   5 1.00000E+00 0.00000E+00 6.64431E-03-3.86660E-03 1.12430E+02 6.54276E+01 6.64431E-03-3.86660E-03 3.32215E-03



                             - - - CURRENTS AND LOCATION - - -

                                 DISTANCES IN WAVELENGTHS


  SEG.  TAG    COORD. OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.            - - - CURRENT (AMPS) - - -
  NO.   NO.     X        Y        Z      LENGTH     REAL        IMAG.       MAG.        PHASE
     1    0    .0000    .0000   -.2189   .06254   1.3862E-03 -9.6305E-04  1.6879E-03  -34.790
     2    0    .0000    .0000   -.1564   .06254   3.7848E-03 -2.5546E-03  4.5663E-03  -34.018
     3    0    .0000    .0000   -.0938   .06254   5.5658E-03 -3.6091E-03  6.6336E-03  -32.961
     4    0    .0000    .0000   -.0313   .06254   6.5215E-03 -3.9782E-03  7.6392E-03  -31.384
     5    0    .0000    .0000    .0313   .06254   6.5215E-03 -3.9782E-03  7.6392E-03  -31.384
     6    0    .0000    .0000    .0938   .06254   5.5658E-03 -3.6091E-03  6.6336E-03  -32.961
     7    0    .0000    .0000    .1564   .06254   3.7848E-03 -2.5546E-03  4.5663E-03  -34.018
     8    0    .0000    .0000    .2189   .06254   1.3862E-03 -9.6305E-04  1.6879E-03  -34.790



                                        - - - POWER BUDGET - - -

                                           INPUT POWER   = 3.3222E-03 WATTS
                                           RADIATED POWER= 2.4402E-03 WATTS
                                           STRUCTURE LOSS= 8.8199E-04 WATTS
                                           NETWORK LOSS  = 0.0000E+00 WATTS
                                           EFFICIENCY    =  73.45 PERCENT






 ***** DATA CARD NO.  8   EN   0     0     0     0  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00  0.00000E+00

 RUN TIME =      .850

Example 3
Input card deck:
CMEXAMPLE 3.  VERTICAL HALF WAVELENGTH ANTENNA OVER GROUND
CM            EXTENDED THIN WIRE KERNEL USED
CM            1. PERFECT GROUND
CM            2. IMPERFECT GROUND INCLUDING GROUND WAVE AND RECEIVING
CE               PATTERN CALCULATIONS
GW  0    9   0.        0.        2.        0.        0.        7.       .3
GE  1
EK
FR  0    1    0    0   30.
EX  0    0    5    0   1.
GN  1
RP  0   10    2 1301   0.        0.        10.       90.
GN  0    0    0    0   6.      1.000E-03     
RP  0   10    2 1301   0.        0.        10.       90.
RP  1   10    1    0   1.        0.        2.        0.      1.000E+05
EX  1   10    1    0   0.        0.        0.        10.
PT  2    0    5    5
XQ
EN

Output printout:
1



                                 ************************************

                                    NUMERICAL ELECTROMAGNETICS CODE

                                 ************************************




                                     - - - - COMMENTS - - - -


                         EXAMPLE 3.  VERTICAL HALF WAVELENGTH ANTENNA OVER GROUND                    
                                     EXTENDED THIN WIRE KERNEL USED                                  
                                     1. PERFECT GROUND                                               
                                     2. IMPERFECT GROUND INCLUDING GROUND WAVE AND RECEIVING         
                                        PATTERN CALCULATIONS                                         




                                 - - - STRUCTURE SPECIFICATION - - -

                                     COORDINATES MUST BE INPUT IN
                                     METERS OR BE SCALED TO METERS
                                     BEFORE STRUCTURE INPUT IS ENDED


  WIRE                                                                               NO. OF    FIRST  LAST     TAG
  NO.        X1         Y1         Z1          X2         Y2         Z2      RADIUS   SEG.     SEG.   SEG.     NO.
     1     .00000     .00000    2.00000      .00000     .00000    7.00000     .30000      9        1     9       0

   GROUND PLANE SPECIFIED.

   WHERE WIRE ENDS TOUCH GROUND, CURRENT WILL BE INTERPOLATED TO IMAGE IN GROUND PLANE.


   TOTAL SEGMENTS USED=    9     NO. SEG. IN A SYMMETRIC CELL=    9     SYMMETRY FLAG=  0


         - MULTIPLE WIRE JUNCTIONS -
 JUNCTION    SEGMENTS  (- FOR END 1, + FOR END 2)
  NONE




                                 - - - - SEGMENTATION DATA - - - -

                                        COORDINATES IN METERS

                         I+ AND I- INDICATE THE SEGMENTS BEFORE AND AFTER I


  SEG.   COORDINATES OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.     ORIENTATION ANGLES    WIRE    CONNECTION DATA   TAG
  NO.       X         Y         Z       LENGTH     ALPHA     BETA      RADIUS    I-   I    I+    NO.
     1    .00000    .00000   2.27778    .55556   90.00000    .00000    .30000     0    1    2      0
     2    .00000    .00000   2.83333    .55556   90.00000    .00000    .30000     1    2    3      0
     3    .00000    .00000   3.38889    .55556   90.00000    .00000    .30000     2    3    4      0
     4    .00000    .00000   3.94444    .55556   90.00000    .00000    .30000     3    4    5      0
     5    .00000    .00000   4.50000    .55556   90.00000    .00000    .30000     4    5    6      0
     6    .00000    .00000   5.05556    .55556   90.00000    .00000    .30000     5    6    7      0
     7    .00000    .00000   5.61111    .55556   90.00000    .00000    .30000     6    7    8      0
     8    .00000    .00000   6.16667    .55556   90.00000    .00000    .30000     7    8    9      0
     9    .00000    .00000   6.72222    .55556   90.00000    .00000    .30000     8    9    0      0






 ***** DATA CARD NO.  1   EK   0     0     0     0  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  2   FR   0     1     0     0  3.00000E+01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  3   EX   0     0     5     0  1.00000E+00  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  4   GN   1     0     0     0  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  5   RP   0    10     2  1301  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  1.00000E+01  9.00000E+01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01




                                 - - - - - - FREQUENCY - - - - - -

                                    FREQUENCY= 3.0000E+01 MHZ
                                    WAVELENGTH= 9.9933E+00 METERS




                    APPROXIMATE INTEGRATION EMPLOYED FOR SEGMENTS MORE THAN   1.000 WAVELENGTHS APART

                    THE EXTENDED THIN WIRE KERNEL WILL BE USED



                               - - - STRUCTURE IMPEDANCE LOADING - - -

                                   THIS STRUCTURE IS NOT LOADED



                                  - - - ANTENNA ENVIRONMENT - - -

                                          PERFECT GROUND



                                - - - MATRIX TIMING - - -

                        FILL=     .000 SEC.,  FACTOR=     .000 SEC.



                                          - - - ANTENNA INPUT PARAMETERS - - -

   TAG   SEG.    VOLTAGE (VOLTS)         CURRENT (AMPS)         IMPEDANCE (OHMS)        ADMITTANCE (MHOS)      POWER
   NO.   NO.    REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.     (WATTS)
     0     5 1.00000E+00 0.00000E-01 9.31458E-03-8.66883E-04 1.06437E+02 9.90578E+00 9.31458E-03-8.66883E-04 4.65729E-03



                             - - - CURRENTS AND LOCATION - - -

                                 DISTANCES IN WAVELENGTHS


  SEG.  TAG    COORD. OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.            - - - CURRENT (AMPS) - - -
  NO.   NO.     X        Y        Z      LENGTH     REAL        IMAG.       MAG.        PHASE
     1    0    .0000    .0000    .2279   .05559   2.8965E-03 -2.5964E-03  3.8899E-03  -41.874
     2    0    .0000    .0000    .2835   .05559   5.5161E-03 -4.2028E-03  6.9348E-03  -37.304
     3    0    .0000    .0000    .3391   .05559   7.4817E-03 -4.6586E-03  8.8135E-03  -31.909
     4    0    .0000    .0000    .3947   .05559   8.7867E-03 -3.7800E-03  9.5653E-03  -23.277
     5    0    .0000    .0000    .4503   .05559   9.3146E-03 -8.6688E-04  9.3548E-03   -5.317
     6    0    .0000    .0000    .5059   .05559   9.0039E-03 -3.8010E-03  9.7734E-03  -22.887
     7    0    .0000    .0000    .5615   .05559   7.8625E-03 -4.6896E-03  9.1549E-03  -30.814
     8    0    .0000    .0000    .6171   .05559   5.9562E-03 -4.2265E-03  7.3034E-03  -35.359
     9    0    .0000    .0000    .6727   .05559   3.2218E-03 -2.6004E-03  4.1403E-03  -38.909



                                        - - - POWER BUDGET - - -

                                           INPUT POWER   = 4.6573E-03 WATTS
                                           RADIATED POWER= 4.6573E-03 WATTS
                                           STRUCTURE LOSS= 0.0000E-01 WATTS
                                           NETWORK LOSS  = 0.0000E-01 WATTS
                                           EFFICIENCY    = 100.00 PERCENT



                                                - - - RADIATION PATTERNS - - -

  - - ANGLES - -           - POWER GAINS -       - - - POLARIZATION - - -    - - - E(THETA) - - -    - - - E(PHI) - - -
  THETA     PHI        VERT.   HOR.    TOTAL      AXIAL     TILT   SENSE     MAGNITUDE    PHASE     MAGNITUDE    PHASE
 DEGREES  DEGREES       DB      DB      DB        RATIO     DEG.              VOLTS/M    DEGREES      VOLTS/M    DEGREES
     .00      .00    -999.99 -999.99 -999.99     .00000      .00            0.00000E-01      .00    0.00000E-01      .00
   10.00      .00      -9.87 -999.99   -9.87     .00000      .00  LINEAR    1.69640E-01  -114.38    0.00000E-01      .00
   20.00      .00      -4.20 -999.99   -4.20     .00000      .00  LINEAR    3.25649E-01  -114.64    0.00000E-01      .00
   30.00      .00      -1.70 -999.99   -1.70     .00000      .00  LINEAR    4.34376E-01  -115.01    0.00000E-01      .00
   40.00      .00      -1.74 -999.99   -1.74     .00000      .00  LINEAR    4.32393E-01  -115.37    0.00000E-01      .00
   50.00      .00      -6.73 -999.99   -6.73     .00000      .00  LINEAR    2.43508E-01  -115.33    0.00000E-01      .00
   60.00      .00     -10.04 -999.99  -10.04     .00000      .00  LINEAR    1.66300E-01    61.67    0.00000E-01      .00
   70.00      .00       2.67 -999.99    2.67     .00000      .00  LINEAR    7.18951E-01    62.56    0.00000E-01      .00
   80.00      .00       7.20 -999.99    7.20     .00000      .00  LINEAR    1.21100E+00    62.51    0.00000E-01      .00
   90.00      .00       8.52 -999.99    8.52     .00000      .00  LINEAR    1.40967E+00    62.47    0.00000E-01      .00
     .00    90.00    -999.99 -999.99 -999.99     .00000      .00            0.00000E-01      .00    0.00000E-01      .00
   10.00    90.00      -9.87 -999.99   -9.87     .00000      .00  LINEAR    1.69640E-01  -114.38    0.00000E-01      .00
   20.00    90.00      -4.20 -999.99   -4.20     .00000      .00  LINEAR    3.25649E-01  -114.64    0.00000E-01      .00
   30.00    90.00      -1.70 -999.99   -1.70     .00000      .00  LINEAR    4.34376E-01  -115.01    0.00000E-01      .00
   40.00    90.00      -1.74 -999.99   -1.74     .00000      .00  LINEAR    4.32393E-01  -115.37    0.00000E-01      .00
   50.00    90.00      -6.73 -999.99   -6.73     .00000      .00  LINEAR    2.43508E-01  -115.33    0.00000E-01      .00
   60.00    90.00     -10.04 -999.99  -10.04     .00000      .00  LINEAR    1.66300E-01    61.67    0.00000E-01      .00
   70.00    90.00       2.67 -999.99    2.67     .00000      .00  LINEAR    7.18951E-01    62.56    0.00000E-01      .00
   80.00    90.00       7.20 -999.99    7.20     .00000      .00  LINEAR    1.21100E+00    62.51    0.00000E-01      .00
   90.00    90.00       8.52 -999.99    8.52     .00000      .00  LINEAR    1.40967E+00    62.47    0.00000E-01      .00


   AVERAGE POWER GAIN= 2.02793E+00       SOLID ANGLE USED IN AVERAGING=(  .5000)*PI STERADIANS.




                                     - - - - NORMALIZED GAIN - - - -

                                        VERTICAL GAIN
                                      NORMALIZATION FACTOR =     8.52 DB

    - - ANGLES' - -      GAIN           - - ANGLES' - -      GAIN           - - ANGLES' - -      GAIN
    THETA     PHI        DB            THETA     PHI        DB            THETA     PHI        DB
   DEGREES  DEGREES                   DEGREES  DEGREES                   DEGREES  DEGREES
       .00      .00  -1008.51           70.00      .00     -5.85           40.00    90.00    -10.26
     10.00      .00    -18.39           80.00      .00     -1.32           50.00    90.00    -15.25
     20.00      .00    -12.73           90.00      .00       .00           60.00    90.00    -18.56
     30.00      .00    -10.23             .00    90.00  -1008.51           70.00    90.00     -5.85
     40.00      .00    -10.26           10.00    90.00    -18.39           80.00    90.00     -1.32
     50.00      .00    -15.25           20.00    90.00    -12.73           90.00    90.00       .00
     60.00      .00    -18.56           30.00    90.00    -10.23






 ***** DATA CARD NO.  6   GN   0     0     0     0  6.00000E+00  1.00000E-03  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  7   RP   0    10     2  1301  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  1.00000E+01  9.00000E+01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01



                               - - - STRUCTURE IMPEDANCE LOADING - - -

                                   THIS STRUCTURE IS NOT LOADED



                                  - - - ANTENNA ENVIRONMENT - - -

                                        FINITE GROUND.  REFLECTION COEFFICIENT APPROXIMATION
                                        RELATIVE DIELECTRIC CONST.=  6.000
                                        CONDUCTIVITY= 1.000E-03 MHOS/METER
                                        COMPLEX DIELECTRIC CONSTANT= 6.00000E+00-5.99200E-01



                                - - - MATRIX TIMING - - -

                        FILL=     .000 SEC.,  FACTOR=     .000 SEC.



                                          - - - ANTENNA INPUT PARAMETERS - - -

   TAG   SEG.    VOLTAGE (VOLTS)         CURRENT (AMPS)         IMPEDANCE (OHMS)        ADMITTANCE (MHOS)      POWER
   NO.   NO.    REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.     (WATTS)
     0     5 1.00000E+00 0.00000E-01 8.91204E-03-8.82840E-04 1.11117E+02 1.10075E+01 8.91204E-03-8.82840E-04 4.45602E-03



                             - - - CURRENTS AND LOCATION - - -

                                 DISTANCES IN WAVELENGTHS


  SEG.  TAG    COORD. OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.            - - - CURRENT (AMPS) - - -
  NO.   NO.     X        Y        Z      LENGTH     REAL        IMAG.       MAG.        PHASE
     1    0    .0000    .0000    .2279   .05559   2.8769E-03 -2.5728E-03  3.8595E-03  -41.807
     2    0    .0000    .0000    .2835   .05559   5.4154E-03 -4.1893E-03  6.8467E-03  -37.725
     3    0    .0000    .0000    .3391   .05559   7.2728E-03 -4.6627E-03  8.6391E-03  -32.665
     4    0    .0000    .0000    .3947   .05559   8.4696E-03 -3.7952E-03  9.2810E-03  -24.137
     5    0    .0000    .0000    .4503   .05559   8.9120E-03 -8.8284E-04  8.9557E-03   -5.657
     6    0    .0000    .0000    .5059   .05559   8.5577E-03 -3.8085E-03  9.3669E-03  -23.991
     7    0    .0000    .0000    .5615   .05559   7.4274E-03 -4.6836E-03  8.7807E-03  -32.235
     8    0    .0000    .0000    .6171   .05559   5.5943E-03 -4.2085E-03  7.0005E-03  -36.954
     9    0    .0000    .0000    .6727   .05559   3.0094E-03 -2.5815E-03  3.9649E-03  -40.623



                                        - - - POWER BUDGET - - -

                                           INPUT POWER   = 4.4560E-03 WATTS
                                           RADIATED POWER= 4.4560E-03 WATTS
                                           STRUCTURE LOSS= 0.0000E-01 WATTS
                                           NETWORK LOSS  = 0.0000E-01 WATTS
                                           EFFICIENCY    = 100.00 PERCENT



                                                - - - RADIATION PATTERNS - - -

  - - ANGLES - -           - POWER GAINS -       - - - POLARIZATION - - -    - - - E(THETA) - - -    - - - E(PHI) - - -
  THETA     PHI        VERT.   HOR.    TOTAL      AXIAL     TILT   SENSE     MAGNITUDE    PHASE     MAGNITUDE    PHASE
 DEGREES  DEGREES       DB      DB      DB        RATIO     DEG.              VOLTS/M    DEGREES      VOLTS/M    DEGREES
     .00      .00    -999.99 -999.99 -999.99     .00000      .00            0.00000E-01      .00    0.00000E-01      .00
   10.00      .00     -12.87 -999.99  -12.87     .00000      .00  LINEAR    1.17471E-01  -124.70    0.00000E-01      .00
   20.00      .00      -7.18 -999.99   -7.18     .00000      .00  LINEAR    2.26148E-01  -128.91    0.00000E-01      .00
   30.00      .00      -4.47 -999.99   -4.47     .00000      .00  LINEAR    3.08872E-01  -137.31    0.00000E-01      .00
   40.00      .00      -3.45 -999.99   -3.45     .00000      .00  LINEAR    3.47271E-01  -153.41    0.00000E-01      .00
   50.00      .00      -2.94 -999.99   -2.94     .00000      .00  LINEAR    3.68436E-01   177.07    0.00000E-01      .00
   60.00      .00       -.79 -999.99    -.79     .00000      .00  LINEAR    4.71934E-01   142.06    0.00000E-01      .00
   70.00      .00       1.54 -999.99    1.54     .00000      .00  LINEAR    6.16990E-01   120.37    0.00000E-01      .00
   80.00      .00        .64 -999.99     .64     .00000      .00  LINEAR    5.56472E-01   110.41    0.00000E-01      .00
   90.00      .00    -128.37 -999.99 -128.37     .00000      .00  LINEAR    1.97295E-07   -45.00    0.00000E-01      .00
     .00    90.00    -999.99 -999.99 -999.99     .00000      .00            0.00000E-01      .00    0.00000E-01      .00
   10.00    90.00     -12.87 -999.99  -12.87     .00000      .00  LINEAR    1.17471E-01  -124.70    0.00000E-01      .00
   20.00    90.00      -7.18 -999.99   -7.18     .00000      .00  LINEAR    2.26148E-01  -128.91    0.00000E-01      .00
   30.00    90.00      -4.47 -999.99   -4.47     .00000      .00  LINEAR    3.08872E-01  -137.31    0.00000E-01      .00
   40.00    90.00      -3.45 -999.99   -3.45     .00000      .00  LINEAR    3.47271E-01  -153.41    0.00000E-01      .00
   50.00    90.00      -2.94 -999.99   -2.94     .00000      .00  LINEAR    3.68436E-01   177.07    0.00000E-01      .00
   60.00    90.00       -.79 -999.99    -.79     .00000      .00  LINEAR    4.71934E-01   142.06    0.00000E-01      .00
   70.00    90.00       1.54 -999.99    1.54     .00000      .00  LINEAR    6.16990E-01   120.37    0.00000E-01      .00
   80.00    90.00        .64 -999.99     .64     .00000      .00  LINEAR    5.56472E-01   110.41    0.00000E-01      .00
   90.00    90.00    -128.37 -999.99 -128.37     .00000      .00  LINEAR    1.97295E-07   -45.00    0.00000E-01      .00


   AVERAGE POWER GAIN= 7.20699E-01       SOLID ANGLE USED IN AVERAGING=(  .5000)*PI STERADIANS.




                                     - - - - NORMALIZED GAIN - - - -

                                        VERTICAL GAIN
                                      NORMALIZATION FACTOR =     1.54 DB

    - - ANGLES' - -      GAIN           - - ANGLES' - -      GAIN           - - ANGLES' - -      GAIN
    THETA     PHI        DB            THETA     PHI        DB            THETA     PHI        DB
   DEGREES  DEGREES                   DEGREES  DEGREES                   DEGREES  DEGREES
       .00      .00  -1001.53           70.00      .00       .00           40.00    90.00     -4.99
     10.00      .00    -14.41           80.00      .00      -.90           50.00    90.00     -4.48
     20.00      .00     -8.72           90.00      .00   -129.90           60.00    90.00     -2.33
     30.00      .00     -6.01             .00    90.00  -1001.53           70.00    90.00       .00
     40.00      .00     -4.99           10.00    90.00    -14.41           80.00    90.00      -.90
     50.00      .00     -4.48           20.00    90.00     -8.72           90.00    90.00   -129.90
     60.00      .00     -2.33           30.00    90.00     -6.01






 ***** DATA CARD NO.  8   RP   1    10     1     0  1.00000E+00  0.00000E-01  2.00000E+00  0.00000E-01  1.00000E+05  0.00000E-01



                             - - - RADIATED FIELDS NEAR GROUND - - -

        - - - LOCATION - - -          - - E(THETA) - -        - - E(PHI) -' -        - - E(RADIAL) - -
       RHO      PHI         Z            MAG      PHASE         MAG      PHASE         MAG      PHASE
     METERS   DEGREES    METERS        VOLTS/M   DEGREES      VOLTS/M   DEGREES      VOLTS/M   DEGREES

   100000.00      .00       1.00     2.3954E-09   142.02    0.0000E-01      .00    8.5944E-10   -46.49
   100000.00      .00       3.00     2.7219E-09   164.40    0.0000E-01      .00    8.5934E-10   -46.49
   100000.00      .00       5.00     3.3543E-09  -179.84    0.0000E-01      .00    8.5925E-10   -46.49
   100000.00      .00       7.00     4.1558E-09  -169.57    0.0000E-01      .00    8.5915E-10   -46.49
   100000.00      .00       9.00     5.0461E-09  -162.78    0.0000E-01      .00    8.5906E-10   -46.49
   100000.00      .00      11.00     5.9861E-09  -158.07    0.0000E-01      .00    8.5896E-10   -46.49
   100000.00      .00      13.00     6.9549E-09  -154.65    0.0000E-01      .00    8.5887E-10   -46.49
   100000.00      .00      15.00     7.9428E-09  -152.08    0.0000E-01      .00    8.5877E-10   -46.49
   100000.00      .00      17.00     8.9432E-09  -150.07    0.0000E-01      .00    8.5868E-10   -46.49
   100000.00      .00      19.00     9.9514E-09  -148.48    0.0000E-01      .00    8.5858E-10   -46.49






 ***** DATA CARD NO.  9   EX   1    10     1     0  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  1.00000E+01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO. 10   PT   2     0     5     5  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO. 11   XQ   0     0     0     0  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01



                                 - - - RECEIVING PATTERN PARAMETERS - - -
                                           ETA=    .00 DEGREES
                                           TYPE -LINEAR
                                           AXIAL RATIO=  .000

           THETA      PHI          -  CURRENT  -         SEG
           (DEG)     (DEG)       MAGNITUDE    PHASE      NO.

              .00       .00     0.0000E-01       .00        5
            10.00       .00     6.2308E-03    -34.69        5
            20.00       .00     1.1997E-02    -38.90        5
            30.00       .00     1.6389E-02    -47.30        5
            40.00       .00     1.8430E-02    -63.41        5
            50.00       .00     1.9558E-02    -92.93        5
            60.00       .00     2.5058E-02   -127.94        5
            70.00       .00     3.2766E-02   -149.63        5
            80.00       .00     2.9555E-02   -159.59        5
            90.00       .00     9.7919E-09     35.39        5



                                - - - NORMALIZED RECEIVING PATTERN - - -
                                         NORMALIZATION FACTOR= 3.2766E-02
                                         ETA=    .00 DEGREES
                                         TYPE -LINEAR
                                         AXIAL RATIO=  .000
                                         SEGMENT NO.=    5

                     THETA      PHI         -  PATTERN  -
                     (DEG)     (DEG)        DB        MAGNITUDE

                        .00       .00    -999.99     0.0000E-01
                      10.00       .00     -14.42     1.9016E-01
                      20.00       .00      -8.73     3.6614E-01
                      30.00       .00      -6.02     5.0017E-01
                      40.00       .00      -5.00     5.6248E-01
                      50.00       .00      -4.48     5.9691E-01
                      60.00       .00      -2.33     7.6476E-01
                      70.00       .00        .00     1.0000E+00
                      80.00       .00       -.90     9.0201E-01
                      90.00       .00    -130.49     2.9884E-07






 ***** DATA CARD NO. 12   EN   0     0     0     0  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01

 RUN TIME =      .000

Example 4
CEEXAMPLE 4.  T ANTENNA ON A BOX OVER PERFECT GROUND
SP 0    0    .1        .05       .05       0.        0.         .01
SP 0    0    .05       .1        .05       0.       90.         .01
GX  0  110
SP 0    0    0.        0.        .1       90.        0.         .04
GW  1    4   0.        0.        .1        0.        0.         .3      .001
GW  2    2   0.        0.        .3        .15       0.         .3      .001
GW  3    2   0.        0.        .3        -.15      0.         .3      .001
GE  1
GN  1
EX  0    1    1    0   1.
RP  0   10    4 1001   0.        0.        10.       30.
EN

1



                                 ************************************

                                    NUMERICAL ELECTROMAGNETICS CODE

                                 ************************************




                                     - - - - COMMENTS - - - -


                         EXAMPLE 4.  T ANTENNA ON A BOX OVER PERFECT GROUND                          




                                 - - - STRUCTURE SPECIFICATION - - -

                                     COORDINATES MUST BE INPUT IN
                                     METERS OR BE SCALED TO METERS
                                     BEFORE STRUCTURE INPUT IS ENDED


  WIRE                                                                               NO. OF    FIRST  LAST     TAG
  NO.        X1         Y1         Z1          X2         Y2         Z2      RADIUS   SEG.     SEG.   SEG.     NO.
     1P    .10000     .05000     .05000      .00000     .00000     .01000
     2P    .05000     .10000     .05000      .00000   90.00000     .01000
      STRUCTURE REFLECTED ALONG THE AXES X Y  .  TAGS INCREMENTED BY    0
     9P    .00000     .00000     .10000    90.00000     .00000     .04000
     1     .00000     .00000     .10000      .00000     .00000     .30000     .00100      4        1     4       1
     2     .00000     .00000     .30000      .15000     .00000     .30000     .00100      2        5     6       2
     3     .00000     .00000     .30000     -.15000     .00000     .30000     .00100      2        7     8       3

   GROUND PLANE SPECIFIED.

   WHERE WIRE ENDS TOUCH GROUND, CURRENT WILL BE INTERPOLATED TO IMAGE IN GROUND PLANE.


   TOTAL SEGMENTS USED=    8     NO. SEG. IN A SYMMETRIC CELL=    8     SYMMETRY FLAG=  0
   TOTAL PATCHES USED=   12      NO. PATCHES IN A SYMMETRIC CELL=   12


         - MULTIPLE WIRE JUNCTIONS -
 JUNCTION    SEGMENTS  (- FOR END 1, + FOR END 2)
     1         4   -5   -7




                                 - - - - SEGMENTATION DATA - - - -

                                        COORDINATES IN METERS

                         I+ AND I- INDICATE THE SEGMENTS BEFORE AND AFTER I


  SEG.   COORDINATES OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.     ORIENTATION ANGLES    WIRE    CONNECTION DATA   TAG
  NO.       X         Y         Z       LENGTH     ALPHA     BETA      RADIUS    I-   I    I+    NO.
     1    .00000    .00000    .12500    .05000   90.00000    .00000    .00100 10009    1    2      1
     2    .00000    .00000    .17500    .05000   90.00000    .00000    .00100     1    2    3      1
     3    .00000    .00000    .22500    .05000   90.00000    .00000    .00100     2    3    4      1
     4    .00000    .00000    .27500    .05000   90.00000    .00000    .00100     3    4    5      1
     5    .03750    .00000    .30000    .07500     .00000    .00000    .00100    -7    5    6      2
     6    .11250    .00000    .30000    .07500     .00000    .00000    .00100     5    6    0      2
     7   -.03750    .00000    .30000    .07500     .00000 180.00000    .00100     4    7    8      3
     8   -.11250    .00000    .30000    .07500     .00000 180.00000    .00100     7    8    0      3




                                            - - - SURFACE PATCH DATA - - -

                                                 COORDINATES IN METERS

 PATCH     COORD. OF PATCH CENTER       UNIT NORMAL VECTOR      PATCH            COMPONENTS OF UNIT TANGENT V'ECTORS
  NO.      X         Y         Z         X       Y       Z       AREA       X1      Y1      Z1       X2      Y2      Z2
    1    .10000    .05000    .05000   1.0000   .0000  -.0000    .01000    .0000  1.0000   .0000    .0000  -.0000  1.0000
    2    .05000    .10000    .05000   0.0000  1.0000   .0000    .01000  -1.0000  0.0000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
    3    .10000   -.05000    .05000   1.0000  -.0000  -.0000    .01000    .0000 -1.0000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
    4    .05000   -.10000    .05000   0.0000 -1.0000  -.0000    .01000  -1.0000  0.0000   .0000    .0000  -.0000  1.0000
    5   -.10000    .05000    .05000  -1.0000  -.0000  -.0000    .01000   -.0000  1.0000   .0000   -.0000  -.0000  1.0000
    6   -.05000    .10000    .05000   0.0000  1.0000  -.0000    .01000   1.0000  0.0000   .0000   -.0000   .0000  1.0000
    7   -.10000   -.05000    .05000  -1.0000   .0000  -.0000    .01000   -.0000 -1.0000   .0000   -.0000   .0000  1.0000
    8   -.05000   -.10000    .05000   0.0000 -1.0000   .0000    .01000   1.0000  0.0000   .0000   -.0000  -.0000  1.0000
    9    .05000    .05000    .10000   -.0000   .0000  1.0000    .01000   1.0000   .0000   .0000    .0000  1.0000  -.0000
   10   -.05000    .05000    .10000   -.0000   .0000  1.0000    .01000   1.0000   .0000   .0000    .0000  1.0000  -.0000
   11   -.05000   -.05000    .10000   -.0000   .0000  1.0000    .01000   1.0000   .0000   .0000    .0000  1.0000  -.0000
   12    .05000   -.05000    .10000   -.0000   .0000  1.0000    .01000   1.0000   .0000   .0000    .0000  1.0000  -.0000






 ***** DATA CARD NO.  1   GN   1     0     0     0  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  2   EX   0     1     1     0  1.00000E+00  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  3   RP   0    10     4  1001  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  1.00000E+01  3.00000E+01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01




                                 - - - - - - FREQUENCY - - - - - -

                                    FREQUENCY= 2.9980E+02 MHZ
                                    WAVELENGTH= 1.0000E+00 METERS




                    APPROXIMATE INTEGRATION EMPLOYED FOR SEGMENTS MORE THAN   1.000 WAVELENGTHS APART



                               - - - STRUCTURE IMPEDANCE LOADING - - -

                                   THIS STRUCTURE IS NOT LOADED



                                  - - - ANTENNA ENVIRONMENT - - -

                                          PERFECT GROUND



                                - - - MATRIX TIMING - - -

                        FILL=     .000 SEC.,  FACTOR=     .000 SEC.



                                          - - - ANTENNA INPUT PARAMETERS - - -

   TAG   SEG.    VOLTAGE (VOLTS)         CURRENT (AMPS)         IMPEDANCE (OHMS)        ADMITTANCE (MHOS)      POWER
   NO.   NO.    REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.     (WATTS)
     1     1 1.00000E+00 0.00000E-01 2.25807E-03-2.71947E-03 1.80727E+02 2.17655E+02 2.25807E-03-2.71947E-03 1.12904E-03



                             - - - CURRENTS AND LOCATION - - -

                                 DISTANCES IN WAVELENGTHS


  SEG.  TAG    COORD. OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.            - - - CURRENT (AMPS) - - -
  NO.   NO.     X        Y        Z      LENGTH     REAL        IMAG.       MAG.        PHASE
     1    1    .0000    .0000    .1250   .05000   2.2581E-03 -2.7195E-03  3.5347E-03  -50.296
     2    1    .0000    .0000    .1750   .05000   2.2309E-03 -3.4896E-03  4.1418E-03  -57.409
     3    1    .0000    .0000    .2250   .05000   2.1622E-03 -3.9058E-03  4.4644E-03  -61.032
     4    1    .0000    .0000    .2750   .05000   2.0278E-03 -3.8953E-03  4.3915E-03  -62.500
     5    2    .0375    .0000    .3000   .07500   8.1382E-04 -1.5860E-03  1.7826E-03  -62.836
     6    2    .1125    .0000    .3000   .07500   3.2206E-04 -6.4890E-04  7.2443E-04  -63.604
     7    3   -.0375    .0000    .3000   .07500   8.1382E-04 -1.5860E-03  1.7826E-03  -62.836
     8    3   -.1125    .0000    .3000   .07500   3.2206E-04 -6.4890E-04  7.2443E-04  -63.604




                                         - - - - SURFACE PATCH CURRENTS - - - -

                                                  DISTANCE IN WAVELENGTHS
                                                  CURRENT IN AMPS/METER

                            - - SURFACE COMPONENTS - -                   - - - RECTANGULAR COMPONENTS - - -
      PATCH CENTER      TANGENT VECTOR 1   TANGENT VECTOR 2           X                   Y                   Z
     X      Y      Z     MAG.       PHASE   MAG.       PHASE    REAL      IMAG.    REAL      IMAG.    REAL      IMAG.
    1
    .100   .050   .050 1.2095E-03  111.88 8.4058E-03 -115.75 -0.00E-01  0.00E-01 -4.51E-04  1.12E-03 -3.65E-03 -7.57E-03
    2
    .050   .100   .050 1.2018E-03  -68.27 8.2434E-03 -116.57 -4.45E-04  1.12E-03 -1.94E-11  4.88E-11 -3.69E-03 -7.37E-03
    3
    .100  -.050   .050 1.2095E-03  111.88 8.4058E-03 -115.75 -0.00E-01  0.00E-01  4.51E-04 -1.12E-03 -3.65E-03 -7.57E-03
    4
    .050  -.100   .050 1.2018E-03  -68.27 8.2434E-03 -116.57 -4.45E-04  1.12E-03  1.94E-11 -4.88E-11 -3.69E-03 -7.37E-03
    5
   -.100   .050   .050 1.2095E-03  111.88 8.4058E-03 -115.75  0.00E-01  0.00E-01 -4.51E-04  1.12E-03 -3.65E-03 -7.57E-03
    6
   -.050   .100   .050 1.2017E-03  -68.27 8.2434E-03 -116.57  4.45E-04 -1.12E-03 -1.94E-11  4.88E-11 -3.69E-03 -7.37E-03
    7
   -.100  -.050   .050 1.2095E-03  111.88 8.4058E-03 -115.75  0.00E-01  0.00E-01  4.51E-04 -1.12E-03 -3.65E-03 -7.57E-03
    8
   -.050  -.100   .050 1.2017E-03  -68.27 8.2434E-03 -116.57  4.45E-04 -1.12E-03  1.94E-11 -4.88E-11 -3.69E-03 -7.37E-03
    9
    .050   .050   .100 6.9791E-03  111.78 6.7774E-03  111.82 -2.59E-03  6.48E-03 -2.52E-03  6.29E-03  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   10
   -.050   .050   .100 6.9791E-03  -68.22 6.7774E-03  111.82  2.59E-03 -6.48E-03 -2.52E-03  6.29E-03  0.00E-01 -0.00E-01
   11
   -.050  -.050   .100 6.9791E-03  -68.22 6.7774E-03  -68.18  2.59E-03 -6.48E-03  2.52E-03 -6.29E-03  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   12
    .050  -.050   .100 6.9791E-03  111.78 6.7774E-03  -68.18 -2.59E-03  6.48E-03  2.52E-03 -6.29E-03 -0.00E-01  0.00E-01



                                        - - - POWER BUDGET - - -

                                           INPUT POWER   = 1.1290E-03 WATTS
                                           RADIATED POWER= 1.1290E-03 WATTS
                                           STRUCTURE LOSS= 0.0000E-01 WATTS
                                           NETWORK LOSS  = 0.0000E-01 WATTS
                                           EFFICIENCY    = 100.00 PERCENT



                                                - - - RADIATION PATTERNS - - -

  - - ANGLES - -           - POWER GAINS -       - - - POLARIZATION - - -    - - - E(THETA) - - -    - - - E(PHI) - - -
  THETA     PHI        VERT.   HOR.    TOTAL      AXIAL     TILT   SENSE     MAGNITUDE    PHASE     MAGNITUDE    PHASE
 DEGREES  DEGREES       DB      DB      DB        RATIO     DEG.              VOLTS/M    DEGREES      VOLTS/M    DEGREES
     .00      .00    -144.52 -146.03 -142.20     .10900    39.93  RIGHT     1.54659E-08    84.20    1.30020E-08    71.57
   10.00      .00     -13.76 -144.43  -13.76    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    5.33569E-02    -7.55    1.56265E-08    74.74
   20.00      .00      -7.53 -144.77   -7.53    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.09305E-01    -5.62    1.50174E-08    62.85
   30.00      .00      -3.71 -145.47   -3.71    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.69676E-01    -2.91    1.38587E-08    81.47
   40.00      .00       -.90 -147.21    -.90    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.34569E-01      .05    1.13432E-08    64.98
   50.00      .00       1.28 -147.61    1.28    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    3.01471E-01     2.82    1.08350E-08    71.57
   60.00      .00       2.94 -150.97    2.94    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    3.65091E-01     5.11    7.35666E-09    62.24
   70.00      .00       4.12 -151.99    4.12    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    4.18285E-01     6.79    6.54601E-09    96.01
   80.00      .00       4.83 -164.60    4.83    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    4.53809E-01     7.80    1.53231E-09    63.43
   90.00      .00       5.07 -999.99    5.07     .00000      .00  LINEAR    4.66307E-01     8.13    0.00000E-01      .00
     .00    30.00    -142.38 -156.09 -142.20     .10900     9.93  RIGHT     1.97887E-08    80.08    4.08122E-09    47.08
   10.00    30.00     -14.02  -37.84  -14.00     .03737    -3.00  RIGHT     5.18064E-02    -8.73    3.33673E-03  -153.15
   20.00    30.00      -7.78  -31.80   -7.76     .03466    -3.01  RIGHT     1.06290E-01    -6.67    6.69072E-03  -153.15
   30.00    30.00      -3.93  -28.38   -3.92     .03042    -2.95  RIGHT     1.65480E-01    -3.75    9.91397E-03  -153.15
   40.00    30.00      -1.08  -26.30   -1.07     .02517    -2.79  RIGHT     2.29786E-01     -.56    1.25926E-02  -153.15
   50.00    30.00       1.15  -25.34    1.16     .01957    -2.47  RIGHT     2.96962E-01     2.42    1.40761E-02  -153.15
   60.00    30.00       2.86  -25.59    2.87     .01412    -2.01  RIGHT     3.61722E-01     4.89    1.36726E-02  -153.15
   70.00    30.00       4.09  -27.50    4.09     .00907    -1.42  RIGHT     4.16529E-01     6.68    1.09688E-02  -153.15
   80.00    30.00       4.83  -32.55    4.83     .00442     -.73  RIGHT     4.53465E-01     7.77    6.13132E-03  -153.15
   90.00    30.00       5.07 -165.86    5.07    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    4.66523E-01     8.13    1.32478E-09   -70.18
     .00    60.00    -142.78 -151.17 -142.20     .10900   -20.07  RIGHT     1.88818E-08    76.70    7.19216E-09   -84.40
   10.00    60.00     -14.54  -37.83  -14.52     .04222    -3.09  RIGHT     4.87717E-02   -11.33    3.34127E-03  -153.15
   20.00    60.00      -8.28  -31.75   -8.26     .03909    -3.12  RIGHT     1.00327E-01    -8.95    6.72501E-03  -153.16
   30.00    60.00      -4.38  -28.29   -4.37     .03409    -3.09  RIGHT     1.57060E-01    -5.59    1.00184E-02  -153.18
   40.00    60.00      -1.46  -26.16   -1.44     .02787    -2.92  RIGHT     2.20029E-01    -1.89    1.28028E-02  -153.19
   50.00    60.00        .87  -25.14     .88     .02130    -2.59  RIGHT     2.87603E-01     1.57    1.43968E-02  -153.20
   60.00    60.00       2.69  -25.35    2.70     .01508    -2.10  RIGHT     3.54582E-01     4.41    1.40578E-02  -153.21
   70.00    60.00       4.01  -27.23    4.01     .00952    -1.47  RIGHT     4.12665E-01     6.48    1.13239E-02  -153.21
   80.00    60.00       4.81  -32.26    4.81     .00458     -.76  RIGHT     4.52516E-01     7.72    6.34616E-03  -153.21
   90.00    60.00       5.08 -154.24    5.08    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    4.66738E-01     8.13    5.04750E-09   -10.39
     .00    90.00    -146.03 -144.52 -142.20     .10900   -50.07  RIGHT     1.30020E-08    71.57    1.54659E-08   -95.80
   10.00    90.00     -14.81 -143.13  -14.81    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    4.72923E-02   -12.75    1.81421E-08   -93.80
   20.00    90.00      -8.54 -143.32   -8.54    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    9.73869E-02   -10.21    1.77559E-08   -94.18
   30.00    90.00      -4.62 -144.80   -4.62    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.52844E-01    -6.60    1.49726E-08  -103.04
   40.00    90.00      -1.65 -143.77   -1.65    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.15060E-01    -2.62    1.68649E-08  -104.74
   50.00    90.00        .72 -149.34     .72    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.82756E-01     1.11    8.87822E-09  -102.27
   60.00    90.00       2.60 -147.14    2.60    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    3.50811E-01     4.17    1.14368E-08  -101.96
   70.00    90.00       3.96 -147.38    3.96    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    4.10555E-01     6.38    1.11278E-08  -141.91
   80.00    90.00       4.80 -156.95    4.80    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    4.51911E-01     7.70    3.69785E-09  -150.45
   90.00    90.00       5.08 -159.58    5.08    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    4.66739E-01     8.14    2.73096E-09  -163.43


   AVERAGE POWER GAIN= 1.79986E+00       SOLID ANGLE USED IN AVERAGING=(  .5000)*PI STERADIANS.








 ***** DATA CARD NO.  4   EN   0     0     0     0  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01

 RUN TIME =      .000

Example 5
Example 5 is a practical log-periodic antenna with 12 elements. Input data
for the transmission line sections is printed in the table "Network Data."
The table "Structure Excitation Data at Network connection Points" contains
the voltage, current impedance, admittance, and power in each segment to
which transmission lines or network connect. This segment current will
differ from the current into the connection transmission line if there are
other transmission lines, network ports, or a voltage source providing
alternate current paths. Thus, the current printed here for segment 3
differs from that in the table antenna "Input Parameters." The latter is the
current through the voltage source and includes the current into the segment
and into the transmission line. Power listed in the network-connection table
is the power being fed into the segment. A negative power indicates that the
structure is feeding power into the network or transmission line.
With 78 segments, file storage must be used for the interaction matrix. The
line after data card number 14 shows how the matrix has been divided into
blocks for transfer between core and the files. The line "CP TIME TAKEN FOR
FACTORIZATION," gives the amount of central processor time used to factor the
matrix excluding time spent transferring data between core and the files.
The EX card option has been used to print the relative asymmetry of the
driving-point admittance matrix. The driving-point admittance matrix is the
matrix of self and mutual admittances of segments connected to transmission
lines, network ports, or voltage sources and should be symmetric.
Input Card Deck:
CM 12 ELEMENT LOG PERIODIC ANTENNA IN FREE SPACE
CM   78 SEGMENTS.     SIGMA=O/L       RECEIVING AND TRANS. PATTERNS.
CM DIPOLE LENGTH TO DIAMETER RATIO=150.
CE TAU=0.93.    SIGMA=0.70.     BOOM IMPEDANCE=50. OHMS.
GW  1    5   0.0000    -1.0000   0.0000000 0.00000   1.0000    0.000    .00667
GW  2    5   -.7527    -1.0753   0.        -.7527    1.0753    0.       .00717
GW  3    5   -1.562    -1.1562   0.        -1.562    1.1562    0.       .00771
GW  4    5   -2.4323   -1.2432   0.        -2.4323   1.2432    0.       .00829
GW  5    5   -3.368    -1.3368   0.        -3.368    1.3368    0.       .00891
GW  6    7   -4.3742   -1.4374   0.        -4.3742   1.4374    0.       .00958
GW  7    7   -5.4562   -1.5456   0.        -5.4562   1.5456    0.       .0103
GW  8    7   -6.6195   -1.6619   0.        -6.6195   1.6619    0.       .01108
GW  9    7   -7.8705   -1.787    0.        -7.8705   1.787     0.       .01191
GW 10    7   -9.2156   -1.9215   0.        -9.2156   1.9215    0.       .01281
GW 11    9  -10.6619   -2.0662   0.       -10.6619   2.0662    0.       .01377
GW 12    9  -12.2171   -2.2217   0.       -12.2171   2.2217    0.       .01481
GE
FR  0    0    0    0    46.29       0.
TL  1    3    2    3   -50.
TL  2    3    3    3   -50.
TL  3    3    4    3   -50.
TL  4    3    5    3   -50.
TL  5    3    6    4   -50.
TL  6    4    7    4   -50.
TL  7    4    8    4   -50.
TL  8    4    9    4   -50.
TL  9    4   10    4   -50.
TL 10    4   11    5   -50.
TL 11    5   12    5   -50. ,0.,0.,0.,.02
EX  0    1    3   10         1 
RP  0   37    1 1110   90.       0.        -5.       0.
EN
Line-Printer Output:

1



                                 ************************************

                                    NUMERICAL ELECTROMAGNETICS CODE

                                 ************************************




                                     - - - - COMMENTS - - - -


                          12 ELEMENT LOG PERIODIC ANTENNA IN FREE SPACE                              
                            78 SEGMENTS.     SIGMA=O/L       RECEIVING AND TRANS. PATTERNS.          
                          DIPOLE LENGTH TO DIAMETER RATIO=150.                                       
                          TAU=0.93.    SIGMA=0.70.     BOOM IMPEDANCE=50. OHMS.                      




                                 - - - STRUCTURE SPECIFICATION - - -

                                     COORDINATES MUST BE INPUT IN
                                     METERS OR BE SCALED TO METERS
                                     BEFORE STRUCTURE INPUT IS ENDED


  WIRE                                                                               NO. OF    FIRST  LAST     TAG
  NO.        X1         Y1         Z1          X2         Y2         Z2      RADIUS   SEG.     SEG.   SEG.     NO.
     1     .00000   -1.00000     .00000      .00000    1.00000     .00000     .00667      5        1     5       1
     2    -.75270   -1.07530     .00000     -.75270    1.07530     .00000     .00717      5        6    10       2
     3   -1.56200   -1.15620     .00000    -1.56200    1.15620     .00000     .00771      5       11    15       3
     4   -2.43230   -1.24320     .00000    -2.43230    1.24320     .00000     .00829      5       16    20       4
     5   -3.36800   -1.33680     .00000    -3.36800    1.33680     .00000     .00891      5       21    25       5
     6   -4.37420   -1.43740     .00000    -4.37420    1.43740     .00000     .00958      7       26    32       6
     7   -5.45620   -1.54560     .00000    -5.45620    1.54560     .00000     .01030      7       33    39       7
     8   -6.61950   -1.66190     .00000    -6.61950    1.66190     .00000     .01108      7       40    46       8
     9   -7.87050   -1.78700     .00000    -7.87050    1.78700     .00000     .01191      7       47    53       9
    10   -9.21560   -1.92150     .00000    -9.21560    1.92150     .00000     .01281      7       54    60      10
    11  -10.66190   -2.06620     .00000   -10.66190    2.06620     .00000     .01377      9       61    69      11
    12  -12.21710   -2.22170     .00000   -12.21710    2.22170     .00000     .01481      9       70    78      12

   TOTAL SEGMENTS USED=   78     NO. SEG. IN A SYMMETRIC CELL=   78     SYMMETRY FLAG=  0


         - MULTIPLE WIRE JUNCTIONS -
 JUNCTION    SEGMENTS  (- FOR END 1, + FOR END 2)
  NONE




                                 - - - - SEGMENTATION DATA - - - -

                                        COORDINATES IN METERS

                         I+ AND I- INDICATE THE SEGMENTS BEFORE AND AFTER I


  SEG.   COORDINATES OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.     ORIENTATION ANGLES    WIRE    CONNECTION DATA   TAG
  NO.       X         Y         Z       LENGTH     ALPHA     BETA      RADIUS    I-   I    I+    NO.
     1    .00000   -.80000    .00000    .40000     .00000  90.00000    .00667     0    1    2      1
     2    .00000   -.40000    .00000    .40000     .00000  90.00000    .00667     1    2    3      1
     3    .00000   0.00000    .00000    .40000     .00000  90.00000    .00667     2    3    4      1
     4    .00000    .40000    .00000    .40000     .00000  90.00000    .00667     3    4    5      1
     5    .00000    .80000    .00000    .40000     .00000  90.00000    .00667     4    5    0      1
     6   -.75270   -.86024    .00000    .43012     .00000  90.00000    .00717     0    6    7      2
     7   -.75270   -.43012    .00000    .43012     .00000  90.00000    .00717     6    7    8      2
     8   -.75270    .00000    .00000    .43012     .00000  90.00000    .00717     7    8    9      2
     9   -.75270    .43012    .00000    .43012     .00000  90.00000    .00717     8    9   10      2
    10   -.75270    .86024    .00000    .43012     .00000  90.00000    .00717     9   10    0      2
    11  -1.56200   -.92496    .00000    .46248     .00000  90.00000    .00771     0   11   12      3
    12  -1.56200   -.46248    .00000    .46248     .00000  90.00000    .00771    11   12   13      3
    13  -1.56200   0.00000    .00000    .46248     .00000  90.00000    .00771    12   13   14      3
    14  -1.56200    .46248    .00000    .46248     .00000  90.00000    .00771    13   14   15      3
    15  -1.56200    .92496    .00000    .46248     .00000  90.00000    .00771    14   15    0      3
    16  -2.43230   -.99456    .00000    .49728     .00000  90.00000    .00829     0   16   17      4
    17  -2.43230   -.49728    .00000    .49728     .00000  90.00000    .00829    16   17   18      4
    18  -2.43230   0.00000    .00000    .49728     .00000  90.00000    .00829    17   18   19      4
    19  -2.43230    .49728    .00000    .49728     .00000  90.00000    .00829    18   19   20      4
    20  -2.43230    .99456    .00000    .49728     .00000  90.00000    .00829    19   20    0      4
    21  -3.36800  -1.06944    .00000    .53472     .00000  90.00000    .00891     0   21   22      5
    22  -3.36800   -.53472    .00000    .53472     .00000  90.00000    .00891    21   22   23      5
    23  -3.36800   0.00000    .00000    .53472     .00000  90.00000    .00891    22   23   24      5
    24  -3.36800    .53472    .00000    .53472     .00000  90.00000    .00891    23   24   25      5
    25  -3.36800   1.06944    .00000    .53472     .00000  90.00000    .00891    24   25    0      5
    26  -4.37420  -1.23206    .00000    .41069     .00000  90.00000    .00958     0   26   27      6
    27  -4.37420   -.82137    .00000    .41069     .00000  90.00000    .00958    26   27   28      6
    28  -4.37420   -.41069    .00000    .41069     .00000  90.00000    .00958    27   28   29      6
    29  -4.37420   0.00000    .00000    .41069     .00000  90.00000    .00958    28   29   30      6
    30  -4.37420    .41069    .00000    .41069     .00000  90.00000    .00958    29   30   31      6
    31  -4.37420    .82137    .00000    .41069     .00000  90.00000    .00958    30   31   32      6
    32  -4.37420   1.23206    .00000    .41069     .00000  90.00000    .00958    31   32    0      6
    33  -5.45620  -1.32480    .00000    .44160     .00000  90.00000    .01030     0   33   34      7
    34  -5.45620   -.88320    .00000    .44160     .00000  90.00000    .01030    33   34   35      7
    35  -5.45620   -.44160    .00000    .44160     .00000  90.00000    .01030    34   35   36      7
    36  -5.45620   0.00000    .00000    .44160     .00000  90.00000    .01030    35   36   37      7
    37  -5.45620    .44160    .00000    .44160     .00000  90.00000    .01030    36   37   38      7
    38  -5.45620    .88320    .00000    .44160     .00000  90.00000    .01030    37   38   39      7
    39  -5.45620   1.32480    .00000    .44160     .00000  90.00000    .01030    38   39    0      7
    40  -6.61950  -1.42449    .00000    .47483     .00000  90.00000    .01108     0   40   41      8
    41  -6.61950   -.94966    .00000    .47483     .00000  90.00000    .01108    40   41   42      8
    42  -6.61950   -.47483    .00000    .47483     .00000  90.00000    .01108    41   42   43      8
    43  -6.61950   0.00000    .00000    .47483     .00000  90.00000    .01108    42   43   44      8
    44  -6.61950    .47483    .00000    .47483     .00000  90.00000    .01108    43   44   45      8
    45  -6.61950    .94966    .00000    .47483     .00000  90.00000    .01108    44   45   46      8
    46  -6.61950   1.42449    .00000    .47483     .00000  90.00000    .01108    45   46    0      8
    47  -7.87050  -1.53171    .00000    .51057     .00000  90.00000    .01191     0   47   48      9
    48  -7.87050  -1.02114    .00000    .51057     .00000  90.00000    .01191    47   48   49      9
    49  -7.87050   -.51057    .00000    .51057     .00000  90.00000    .01191    48   49   50      9
    50  -7.87050   0.00000    .00000    .51057     .00000  90.00000    .01191    49   50   51      9
    51  -7.87050    .51057    .00000    .51057     .00000  90.00000    .01191    50   51   52      9
    52  -7.87050   1.02114    .00000    .51057     .00000  90.00000    .01191    51   52   53      9
    53  -7.87050   1.53171    .00000    .51057     .00000  90.00000    .01191    52   53    0      9
    54  -9.21560  -1.64700    .00000    .54900     .00000  90.00000    .01281     0   54   55     10
    55  -9.21560  -1.09800    .00000    .54900     .00000  90.00000    .01281    54   55   56     10
    56  -9.21560   -.54900    .00000    .54900     .00000  90.00000    .01281    55   56   57     10
    57  -9.21560   0.00000    .00000    .54900     .00000  90.00000    .01281    56   57   58     10
    58  -9.21560    .54900    .00000    .54900     .00000  90.00000    .01281    57   58   59     10
    59  -9.21560   1.09800    .00000    .54900     .00000  90.00000    .01281    58   59   60     10
    60  -9.21560   1.64700    .00000    .54900     .00000  90.00000    .01281    59   60    0     10
    61 -10.66190  -1.83662    .00000    .45916     .00000  90.00000    .01377     0   61   62     11
    62 -10.66190  -1.37747    .00000    .45916     .00000  90.00000    .01377    61   62   63     11
    63 -10.66190   -.91831    .00000    .45916     .00000  90.00000    .01377    62   63   64     11
    64 -10.66190   -.45916    .00000    .45916     .00000  90.00000    .01377    63   64   65     11
    65 -10.66190    .00000    .00000    .45916     .00000  90.00000    .01377    64   65   66     11
    66 -10.66190    .45916    .00000    .45916     .00000  90.00000    .01377    65   66   67     11
    67 -10.66190    .91831    .00000    .45916     .00000  90.00000    .01377    66   67   68     11
    68 -10.66190   1.37747    .00000    .45916     .00000  90.00000    .01377    67   68   69     11
    69 -10.66190   1.83662    .00000    .45916     .00000  90.00000    .01377    68   69    0     11
    70 -12.21710  -1.97484    .00000    .49371     .00000  90.00000    .01481     0   70   71     12
    71 -12.21710  -1.48113    .00000    .49371     .00000  90.00000    .01481    70   71   72     12
    72 -12.21710   -.98742    .00000    .49371     .00000  90.00000    .01481    71   72   73     12
    73 -12.21710   -.49371    .00000    .49371     .00000  90.00000    .01481    72   73   74     12
    74 -12.21710   0.00000    .00000    .49371     .00000  90.00000    .01481    73   74   75     12
    75 -12.21710    .49371    .00000    .49371     .00000  90.00000    .01481    74   75   76     12
    76 -12.21710    .98742    .00000    .49371     .00000  90.00000    .01481    75   76   77     12
    77 -12.21710   1.48113    .00000    .49371     .00000  90.00000    .01481    76   77   78     12
    78 -12.21710   1.97484    .00000    .49371     .00000  90.00000    .01481    77   78    0     12






 ***** DATA CARD NO.  1   FR   0     0     0     0  4.62900E+01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  2   TL   1     3     2     3 -5.00000E+01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  3   TL   2     3     3     3 -5.00000E+01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  4   TL   3     3     4     3 -5.00000E+01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  5   TL   4     3     5     3 -5.00000E+01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  6   TL   5     3     6     4 -5.00000E+01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  7   TL   6     4     7     4 -5.00000E+01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  8   TL   7     4     8     4 -5.00000E+01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  9   TL   8     4     9     4 -5.00000E+01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO. 10   TL   9     4    10     4 -5.00000E+01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO. 11   TL  10     4    11     5 -5.00000E+01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO. 12   TL  11     5    12     5 -5.00000E+01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  2.00000E-02  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO. 13   EX   0     1     3    10  1.00000E+00  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO. 14   RP   0    37     1  1110  9.00000E+01  0.00000E-01 -5.00000E+00  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01




                                 - - - - - - FREQUENCY - - - - - -

                                    FREQUENCY= 4.6290E+01 MHZ
                                    WAVELENGTH= 6.4766E+00 METERS




                    APPROXIMATE INTEGRATION EMPLOYED FOR SEGMENTS MORE THAN   1.000 WAVELENGTHS APART



                               - - - STRUCTURE IMPEDANCE LOADING - - -

                                   THIS STRUCTURE IS NOT LOADED



                                  - - - ANTENNA ENVIRONMENT - - -

                                            FREE SPACE



                                - - - MATRIX TIMING - - -

                        FILL=     .000 SEC.,  FACTOR=     .000 SEC.



                                            - - - NETWORK DATA - - -

      - FROM -    - TO -           TRANSMISSION LINE               -  -  SHUNT ADMITTANCES (MHOS)  -  -              LINE
      TAG  SEG.   TAG  SEG.      IMPEDANCE      LENGTH            - END ONE -                 - END TWO -            TYPE
      NO.   NO.   NO.   NO.         OHM'S        METERS         REAL          IMAG.         REAL          IMAG.
        1     3     2     8     5.0000E+01    7.5270E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01   CROSSED 
        2     8     3    13     5.0000E+01    8.0930E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01   CROSSED 
        3    13     4    18     5.0000E+01    8.7030E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01   CROSSED 
        4    18     5    23     5.0000E+01    9.3570E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01   CROSSED 
        5    23     6    29     5.0000E+01    1.0062E+00    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01   CROSSED 
        6    29     7    36     5.0000E+01    1.0820E+00    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01   CROSSED 
        7    36     8    43     5.0000E+01    1.1633E+00    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01   CROSSED 
        8    43     9    50     5.0000E+01    1.2510E+00    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01   CROSSED 
        9    50    10    57     5.0000E+01    1.3451E+00    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01   CROSSED 
       10    57    11    65     5.0000E+01    1.4463E+00    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01   CROSSED 
       11    65    12    74     5.0000E+01    1.5552E+00    0.0000E-01    0.0000E-01    2.0000E-02    0.0000E-01   CROSSED 



   MAXIMUM RELATIVE ASYMMETRY OF THE DRIVING POINT ADMITTANCE MATRIX IS 1.073E-02 FOR SEGMENTS   65 AND   23
   RMS RELATIVE ASYMMETRY IS 5.722E-03



                           - - - STRUCTURE EXCITATION DATA AT NETWORK CONNECTION POINTS - - -

   TAG   SEG.    VOLTAGE (VOLTS)         CURRENT (AMPS)         IMPEDANCE (OHMS)        ADMITTANCE (MHOS)      POWER
   NO.   NO.    REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.     (WATTS)
     2     8-6.76616E-01 7.27107E-01-1.87448E-04-1.90086E-03-3.44068E+02-3.89883E+02-1.27248E-03 1.44192E-03-6.27648E-04
     3    13-1.14179E-01-1.08175E+00 6.83832E-03 2.28689E-03-6.25982E+01-1.37256E+02-2.75065E-03 6.03119E-03-1.62732E-03
     4    18 9.62183E-01 5.03150E-01-4.58059E-03 1.06832E-02 7.16349E+00-9.31369E+01 8.20955E-04 1.06737E-02 4.83935E-04
     5    23-7.24713E-01 6.58962E-01-1.37152E-02-3.48003E-03 3.81905E+01-5.77365E+01 7.96961E-03 1.20485E-02 3.82318E-03
     6    29-2.80596E-01-7.56236E-01 1.69124E-03-1.27472E-02 5.54295E+01-2.93665E+01 1.40869E-02 7.46324E-03 4.58267E-03
     7    36 5.10270E-01 5.67761E-02 9.62865E-03-1.20107E-03 5.14587E+01 1.23155E+01 1.83803E-02-4.39892E-03 2.42251E-03
     8    43-2.44964E-01 2.99215E-01 1.37879E-03 5.04751E-03 4.28271E+01 6.02303E+01 7.84113E-03-1.10275E-02 5.86270E-04
     9    50-9.81928E-02-3.60792E-01-2.30707E-03 5.52838E-04 4.81112E+00 1.57539E+02 1.93672E-04-6.34174E-03 1.35389E-05
    10    57 3.40100E-01 2.78461E-02 3.63826E-04-9.09073E-04 1.02654E+02 3.33033E+02 8.45245E-04-2.74216E-03 4.92115E-05
    11    65-9.25478E-02 3.38625E-01 5.72652E-04 5.66045E-04 2.13900E+02 3.79895E+02 1.12535E-03-1.99868E-03 6.93396E-05
    12    74-2.94654E-01-1.34965E-01-7.24811E-04 4.78766E-04 1.97400E+02 3.16598E+02 1.41809E-03-2.27439E-03 7.44759E-05
     1     3 1.00000E+00 0.00000E-01 1.82304E-03 2.30145E-03 2.11486E+02-2.66986E+02 1.82304E-03 2.30145E-03 9.11518E-04



                                          - - - ANTENNA INPUT PARAMETERS - - -

   TAG   SEG.    VOLTAGE (VOLTS)         CURRENT (AMPS)         IMPEDANCE (OHMS)        ADMITTANCE (MHOS)      POWER
   NO.   NO.    REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.     (WATTS)
     1     3 1.00000E+00 0.00000E-01 2.36241E-02 2.50358E-04 4.23249E+01-4.48542E-01 2.36241E-02 2.50358E-04 1.18120E-02



                             - - - CURRENTS AND LOCATION - - -

                                 DISTANCES IN WAVELENGTHS


  SEG.  TAG    COORD. OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.            - - - CURRENT (AMPS) - - -
  NO.   NO.     X        Y        Z      LENGTH     REAL        IMAG.       MAG.        PHASE
     1    1    .0000   -.1235    .0000   .06176   6.9701E-04  5.6831E-04  8.9933E-04   39.192
     2    1    .0000   -.0618    .0000   .06176   1.5441E-03  1.5715E-03  2.2031E-03   45.505
     3    1    .0000   0.0000    .0000   .06176   1.8230E-03  2.3015E-03  2.9360E-03   51.616
     4    1    .0000    .0618    .0000   .06176   1.5441E-03  1.5715E-03  2.2031E-03   45.505
     5    1    .0000    .1235    .0000   .06176   6.9701E-04  5.6831E-04  8.9933E-04   39.192
     6    2   -.1162   -.1328    .0000   .06641   1.9927E-04 -4.7369E-04  5.1389E-04  -67.185
     7    2   -.1162   -.0664    .0000   .06641   1.5391E-04 -1.3187E-03  1.3277E-03  -83.343
     8    2   -.1162    .0000    .0000   .06641  -1.8745E-04 -1.9009E-03  1.9101E-03  -95.632
     9    2   -.1162    .0664    .0000   .06641   1.5391E-04 -1.3187E-03  1.3277E-03  -83.343
    10    2   -.1162    .1328    .0000   .06641   1.9927E-04 -4.7369E-04  5.1389E-04  -67.185
    11    3   -.2412   -.1428    .0000   .07141   2.1564E-03  9.2255E-04  2.3455E-03   23.162
    12    3   -.2412   -.0714    .0000   .07141   5.2787E-03  1.9920E-03  5.6420E-03   20.675
    13    3   -.2412   0.0000    .0000   .07141   6.8383E-03  2.2869E-03  7.2106E-03   18.491
    14    3   -.2412    .0714    .0000   .07141   5.2786E-03  1.9920E-03  5.6420E-03   20.675
    15    3   -.2412    .1428    .0000   .07141   2.1564E-03  9.2255E-04  2.3455E-03   23.162
    16    4   -.3756   -.1536    .0000   .07678  -1.5100E-03  3.5736E-03  3.8795E-03  112.907
    17    4   -.3756   -.0768    .0000   .07678  -3.6154E-03  8.5166E-03  9.2522E-03  113.002
    18    4   -.3756   0.0000    .0000   .07678  -4.5806E-03  1.0683E-02  1.1624E-02  113.208
    19    4   -.3756    .0768    .0000   .07678  -3.6154E-03  8.5165E-03  9.2522E-03  113.002
    20    4   -.3756    .1536    .0000   .07678  -1.5100E-03  3.5736E-03  3.8795E-03  112.907
    21    5   -.5200   -.1651    .0000   .08256  -4.7273E-03 -9.5638E-04  4.8231E-03 -168.563
    22    5   -.5200   -.0826    .0000   .08256  -1.1146E-02 -2.5350E-03  1.1431E-02 -167.187
    23    5   -.5200   0.0000    .0000   .08256  -1.3715E-02 -3.4800E-03  1.4150E-02 -165.762
    24    5   -.5200    .0826    .0000   .08256  -1.1146E-02 -2.5350E-03  1.1431E-02 -167.187
    25    5   -.5200    .1651    .0000   .08256  -4.7273E-03 -9.5638E-04  4.8231E-03 -168.563
    26    6   -.6754   -.1902    .0000   .06341   1.3731E-04 -3.3822E-03  3.3850E-03  -87.675
    27    6   -.6754   -.1268    .0000   .06341   5.5799E-04 -8.3198E-03  8.3385E-03  -86.163
    28    6   -.6754   -.0634    .0000   .06341   1.1473E-03 -1.1516E-02  1.1573E-02  -84.311
    29    6   -.6754   0.0000    .0000   .06341   1.6912E-03 -1.2747E-02  1.2859E-02  -82.442
    30    6   -.6754    .0634    .0000   .06341   1.1473E-03 -1.1516E-02  1.1573E-02  -84.311
    31    6   -.6754    .1268    .0000   .06341   5.5799E-04 -8.3199E-03  8.3385E-03  -86.163
    32    6   -.6754    .1902    .0000   .06341   1.3731E-04 -3.3822E-03  3.3850E-03  -87.675
    33    7   -.8425   -.2046    .0000   .06818   2.5954E-03 -5.7116E-04  2.6575E-03  -12.411
    34    7   -.8425   -.1364    .0000   .06818   6.4066E-03 -1.2268E-03  6.5230E-03  -10.840
    35    7   -.8425   -.0682    .0000   .06818   8.8142E-03 -1.3925E-03  8.9235E-03   -8.978
    36    7   -.8425   0.0000    .0000   .06818   9.6287E-03 -1.2011E-03  9.7033E-03   -7.110
    37    7   -.8425    .0682    .0000   .06818   8.8142E-03 -1.3925E-03  8.9235E-03   -8.978
    38    7   -.8425    .1364    .0000   .06818   6.4066E-03 -1.2268E-03  6.5230E-03  -10.840
    39    7   -.8425    .2046    .0000   .06818   2.5954E-03 -5.7116E-04  2.6575E-03  -12.411
    40    8  -1.0221   -.2199    .0000   .07331   5.2466E-04  1.4101E-03  1.5045E-03   69.591
    41    8  -1.0221   -.1466    .0000   .07331   1.1847E-03  3.4847E-03  3.6806E-03   71.223
    42    8  -1.0221   -.0733    .0000   .07331   1.4458E-03  4.7321E-03  4.9480E-03   73.011
    43    8  -1.0221   0.0000    .0000   .07331   1.3788E-03  5.0475E-03  5.2324E-03   74.722
    44    8  -1.0221    .0733    .0000   .07331   1.4458E-03  4.7321E-03  4.9480E-03   73.011
    45    8  -1.0221    .1466    .0000   .07331   1.1847E-03  3.4847E-03  3.6806E-03   71.223
    46    8  -1.0221    .2199    .0000   .07331   5.2466E-04  1.4101E-03  1.5045E-03   69.591
    47    9  -1.2152   -.2365    .0000   .07883  -7.4266E-04  2.0200E-04  7.6964E-04  164.784
    48    9  -1.2152   -.1577    .0000   .07883  -1.7935E-03  4.6191E-04  1.8521E-03  165.558
    49    9  -1.2152   -.0788    .0000   .07883  -2.3192E-03  5.7096E-04  2.3884E-03  166.169
    50    9  -1.2152   0.0000    .0000   .07883  -2.3071E-03  5.5284E-04  2.3724E-03  166.524
    51    9  -1.2152    .0788    .0000   .07883  -2.3192E-03  5.7096E-04  2.3884E-03  166.169
    52    9  -1.2152    .1577    .0000   .07883  -1.7935E-03  4.6191E-04  1.8521E-03  165.558
    53    9  -1.2152    .2365    .0000   .07883  -7.4266E-04  2.0200E-04  7.6964E-04  164.784
    54   10  -1.4229   -.2543    .0000   .08477   9.5743E-05 -3.9087E-04  4.0242E-04  -76.236
    55   10  -1.4229   -.1695    .0000   .08477   2.4938E-04 -8.9773E-04  9.3173E-04  -74.475
    56   10  -1.4229   -.0848    .0000   .08477   3.4515E-04 -1.0563E-03  1.1113E-03  -71.906
    57   10  -1.4229   0.0000    .0000   .08477   3.6383E-04 -9.0907E-04  9.7917E-04  -68.188
    58   10  -1.4229    .0848    .0000   .08477   3.4515E-04 -1.0563E-03  1.1113E-03  -71.906
    59   10  -1.4229    .1695    .0000   .08477   2.4938E-04 -8.9773E-04  9.3173E-04  -74.475
    60   10  -1.4229    .2543    .0000   .08477   9.5743E-05 -3.9087E-04  4.0242E-04  -76.236
    61   11  -1.6462   -.2836    .0000   .07089   2.7079E-04  1.5010E-04  3.0961E-04   28.999
    62   11  -1.6462   -.2127    .0000   .07089   6.3252E-04  3.7761E-04  7.3667E-04   30.837
    63   11  -1.6462   -.1418    .0000   .07089   8.0839E-04  5.3276E-04  9.6816E-04   33.386
    64   11  -1.6462   -.0709    .0000   .07089   7.6874E-04  5.9415E-04  9.7159E-04   37.700
    65   11  -1.6462    .0000    .0000   .07089   5.7265E-04  5.6604E-04  8.0519E-04   44.668
    66   11  -1.6462    .0709    .0000   .07089   7.6874E-04  5.9415E-04  9.7158E-04   37.700
    67   11  -1.6462    .1418    .0000   .07089   8.0839E-04  5.3276E-04  9.6815E-04   33.386
    68   11  -1.6462    .2127    .0000   .07089   6.3252E-04  3.7761E-04  7.3666E-04   30.837
    69   11  -1.6462    .2836    .0000   .07089   2.7079E-04  1.5010E-04  3.0960E-04   28.999
    70   12  -1.8864   -.3049    .0000   .07623  -1.9982E-04  2.4071E-04  3.1284E-04  129.697
    71   12  -1.8864   -.2287    .0000   .07623  -5.0500E-04  5.6306E-04  7.5635E-04  131.888
    72   12  -1.8864   -.1525    .0000   .07623  -7.0915E-04  7.1496E-04  1.0070E-03  134.767
    73   12  -1.8864   -.0762    .0000   .07623  -7.7879E-04  6.6719E-04  1.0255E-03  139.413
    74   12  -1.8864   0.0000    .0000   .07623  -7.2481E-04  4.7877E-04  8.6866E-04  146.554
    75   12  -1.8864    .0762    .0000   .07623  -7.7879E-04  6.6719E-04  1.0255E-03  139.413
    76   12  -1.8864    .1525    .0000   .07623  -7.0915E-04  7.1496E-04  1.0070E-03  134.767
    77   12  -1.8864    .2287    .0000   .07623  -5.0500E-04  5.6306E-04  7.5635E-04  131.888
    78   12  -1.8864    .3049    .0000   .07623  -1.9982E-04  2.4071E-04  3.1284E-04  129.697



                                        - - - POWER BUDGET - - -

                                           INPUT POWER   = 1.1812E-02 WATTS
                                           RADIATED POWER= 1.0762E-02 WATTS
                                           STRUCTURE LOSS= 0.0000E-01 WATTS
                                           NETWORK LOSS  = 1.0504E-03 WATTS
                                           EFFICIENCY    =  91.11 PERCENT



                                                - - - RADIATION PATTERNS - - -

  - - ANGLES - -       - DIRECTIVE GAINS -       - - - POLARIZATION - - -    - - - E(THETA) - - -    - - - E(PHI) - - -
  THETA     PHI        VERT.   HOR.    TOTAL      AXIAL     TILT   SENSE     MAGNITUDE    PHASE     MAGNITUDE    PHASE
 DEGREES  DEGREES       DB      DB      DB        RATIO     DEG.              VOLTS/M    DEGREES      VOLTS/M    DEGREES
   90.00      .00    -999.99    9.75    9.75     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    2.46922E+00   -66.00
   85.00      .00    -999.99    9.70    9.70     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    2.45353E+00   -65.20
   80.00      .00    -999.99    9.53    9.53     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    2.40690E+00   -62.83
   75.00      .00    -999.99    9.25    9.25     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    2.33094E+00   -58.96
   70.00      .00    -999.99    8.86    8.86     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    2.22889E+00   -53.74
   65.00      .00    -999.99    8.37    8.37     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    2.10617E+00   -47.30
   60.00      .00    -999.99    7.79    7.79     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    1.97024E+00   -39.77
   55.00      .00    -999.99    7.15    7.15     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    1.82917E+00   -31.17
   50.00      .00    -999.99    6.45    6.45     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    1.68849E+00   -21.34
   45.00      .00    -999.99    5.70    5.70     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    1.54747E+00    -9.91
   40.00      .00    -999.99    4.81    4.81     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    1.39759E+00     3.57
   35.00      .00    -999.99    3.67    3.67     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    1.22601E+00    19.48
   30.00      .00    -999.99    2.10    2.10     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    1.02313E+00    38.02
   25.00      .00    -999.99    -.14    -.14     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    7.90314E-01    59.26
   20.00      .00    -999.99   -3.40   -3.40     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    5.43333E-01    83.42
   15.00      .00    -999.99   -8.27   -8.27     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    3.10023E-01   111.77
   10.00      .00    -999.99  -16.15  -16.15     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    1.25194E-01   152.57
    5.00      .00    -999.99  -23.15  -23.15     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    5.58629E-02  -103.82
     .00      .00    -999.99  -19.63  -19.63     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    8.37855E-02   -41.89
   -5.00      .00    -999.99  -20.66  -20.66     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    7.44409E-02   -24.87
  -10.00      .00    -999.99  -22.14  -22.14     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    6.27578E-02   -47.83
  -15.00      .00    -999.99  -17.70  -17.70     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    1.04649E-01   -62.63
  -20.00      .00    -999.99  -14.43  -14.43     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    1.52508E-01   -50.23
  -25.00      .00    -999.99  -13.31  -13.31     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    1.73568E-01   -30.90
  -30.00      .00    -999.99  -13.96  -13.96     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    1.61079E-01   -10.69
  -35.00      .00    -999.99  -16.41  -16.41     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    1.21488E-01     7.49
  -40.00      .00    -999.99  -21.41  -21.41     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    6.83240E-02    18.31
  -45.00      .00    -999.99  -29.95  -29.95     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    2.55614E-02   -16.52
  -50.00      .00    -999.99  -24.33  -24.33     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    4.87792E-02   -74.32
  -55.00      .00    -999.99  -19.91  -19.91     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    8.11455E-02   -72.25
  -60.00      .00    -999.99  -17.99  -17.99     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    1.01234E-01   -63.59
  -65.00      .00    -999.99  -17.28  -17.28     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    1.09817E-01   -55.16
  -70.00      .00    -999.99  -17.24  -17.24     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    1.10371E-01   -48.42
  -75.00      .00    -999.99  -17.53  -17.53     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    1.06719E-01   -43.73
  -80.00      .00    -999.99  -17.92  -17.92     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    1.02039E-01   -40.94
  -85.00      .00    -999.99  -18.23  -18.23     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    9.84805E-02   -39.60
  -90.00      .00    -999.99  -18.35  -18.35     .00000    90.00  LINEAR    0.00000E-01      .00    9.71799E-02   -39.22


                                     - - - - NORMALIZED GAIN - - - -

                                      MAJOR AXIS GAIN
                                      NORMALIZATION FACTOR =     9.75 DB

    - - ANGLES' - -      GAIN           - - ANGLES' - -      GAIN           - - ANGLES' - -      GAIN
    THETA     PHI        DB            THETA     PHI        DB            THETA     PHI        DB
   DEGREES  DEGREES                   DEGREES  DEGREES                   DEGREES  DEGREES
     90.00      .00       .00           25.00      .00     -9.90          -35.00      .00    -26.16
     85.00      .00      -.06           20.00      .00    -13.15          -40.00      .00    -31.16
     80.00      .00      -.22           15.00      .00    -18.02          -45.00      .00    -39.70
     75.00      .00      -.50           10.00      .00    -25.90          -50.00      .00    -34.09
     70.00      .00      -.89            5.00      .00    -32.91          -55.00      .00    -29.67
     65.00      .00     -1.38             .00      .00    -29.39          -60.00      .00    -27.74
     60.00      .00     -1.96           -5.00      .00    -30.41          -65.00      .00    -27.04
     55.00      .00     -2.61          -10.00      .00    -31.90          -70.00      .00    -26.99
     50.00      .00     -3.30          -15.00      .00    -27.46          -75.00      .00    -27.29
     45.00      .00     -4.06          -20.00      .00    -24.19          -80.00      .00    -27.68
     40.00      .00     -4.94          -25.00      .00    -23.06          -85.00      .00    -27.98
     35.00      .00     -6.08          -30.00      .00    -23.71          -90.00      .00    -28.10
     30.00      .00     -7.65






 ***** DATA CARD NO. 15   EN   0     0     0     0  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01

 RUN TIME =      .000

Example 6

The geometry data for the cylinder with attached wires was discussed in
section III-2. The wire on the end of the cylinder is excited first and a
radiation pattern is computed. The CP card requests the coupling between the
base segments of the two wires. Hence after the second wire has been excited,
the table "ISOLATION DATA" is printed. The coupling printed is the maximum
that would occur when the source and load are simultaneously matched to
there antennas. The table includes the matched load impedance for the second
segment and the corresponding input impedance at the firs segment. The
source impedance would be the conjugate of this input impedance for maximum
coupling.

(See Figure 12.)

Input:
CECYLINDER WITH ATTACHED WIRES
SP  0    0   10        0         7.3333    0.        0.        38.4
SP  0    0   10        0         0.        0.        0.        38.4
SP  0    0   10        0        -7.3333    0.        0.        38.4
GM  0    1    0.       0.        30.
SP  0    0    6.89     0.        11.       90.       0.        44.88
SP  0    0    6.89     0.        -11.      -90.      0.        44.88
GR  0    6
SP  0    0    0.       0.        11.       90.       0.        44.89
SP  0    0    0.       0.        -11.      -90.      0.        44.89
GW  1    4    0.       0.        11.       0.        0.        23.      .1
GW  2    5    10.      0.        0.        27.6      0.        0.       .2
GS,0,0,.01
GE
FR,0,1,0,0,465.84
CP  1    1    2    1
EX  0    1    1        1.
RP  0   73    1 1000   0.        0.        5.        0.
EX  0    2    1    0   1.
XQ
EN

Output:

1



                                 ************************************

                                    NUMERICAL ELECTROMAGNETICS CODE

                                 ************************************




                                     - - - - COMMENTS - - - -


                         CYLINDER WITH ATTACHED WIRES                                                




                                 - - - STRUCTURE SPECIFICATION - - -

                                     COORDINATES MUST BE INPUT IN
                                     METERS OR BE SCALED TO METERS
                                     BEFORE STRUCTURE INPUT IS ENDED


  WIRE                                                                               NO. OF    FIRST  LAST     TAG
  NO.        X1         Y1         Z1          X2         Y2         Z2      RADIUS   SEG.     SEG.   SEG.     NO.
     1P  10.00000     .00000    7.33330      .00000     .00000   38.40000
     2P  10.00000     .00000     .00000      .00000     .00000   38.40000
     3P  10.00000     .00000   -7.33330      .00000     .00000   38.40000
      THE STRUCTURE HAS BEEN MOVED, MOVE DATA CARD IS -/6X  0    1    .00000    .00000  30.00000    .00000    .00000    .00000    .00000
     7P   6.89000     .00000   11.00000    90.00000     .00000   44.88000
     8P   6.89000     .00000  -11.00000   -90.00000     .00000   44.88000
      STRUCTURE ROTATED ABOUT Z-AXIS  6 TIMES.  LABELS INCREMENTED BY    0
    49P    .00000     .00000   11.00000    90.00000     .00000   44.89000
    50P    .00000     .00000  -11.00000   -90.00000     .00000   44.89000
     1     .00000     .00000   11.00000      .00000     .00000   23.00000     .10000      4        1     4       1
     2   10.00000     .00000     .00000    27.60000     .00000     .00000     .20000      5        5     9       2
      STRUCTURE SCALED BY FACTOR    .01000

   TOTAL SEGMENTS USED=    9     NO. SEG. IN A SYMMETRIC CELL=    9     SYMMETRY FLAG=  0
   TOTAL PATCHES USED=   56      NO. PATCHES IN A SYMMETRIC CELL=   56


         - MULTIPLE WIRE JUNCTIONS -
 JUNCTION    SEGMENTS  (- FOR END 1, + FOR END 2)
  NONE




                                 - - - - SEGMENTATION DATA - - - -

                                        COORDINATES IN METERS

                         I+ AND I- INDICATE THE SEGMENTS BEFORE AND AFTER I


  SEG.   COORDINATES OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.     ORIENTATION ANGLES    WIRE    CONNECTION DATA   TAG
  NO.       X         Y         Z       LENGTH     ALPHA     BETA      RADIUS    I-   I    I+    NO.
     1    .00000    .00000    .12500    .03000   90.00000    .00000    .00100 10052    1    2      1
     2    .00000    .00000    .15500    .03000   90.00000    .00000    .00100     1    2    3      1
     3    .00000    .00000    .18500    .03000   90.00000    .00000    .00100     2    3    4      1
     4    .00000    .00000    .21500    .03000   90.00000    .00000    .00100     3    4    0      1
     5    .11760    .00000    .00000    .03520     .00000    .00000    .00200 10002    5    6      2
     6    .15280    .00000    .00000    .03520     .00000    .00000    .00200     5    6    7      2
     7    .18800    .00000    .00000    .03520     .00000    .00000    .00200     6    7    8      2
     8    .22320    .00000    .00000    .03520     .00000    .00000    .00200     7    8    9      2
     9    .25840    .00000    .00000    .03520     .00000    .00000    .00200     8    9    0      2




                                            - - - SURFACE PATCH DATA - - -

                                                 COORDINATES IN METERS

 PATCH     COORD. OF PATCH CENTER       UNIT NORMAL VECTOR      PATCH            COMPONENTS OF UNIT TANGENT V'ECTORS
  NO.      X         Y         Z         X       Y       Z       AREA       X1      Y1      Z1       X2      Y2      Z2
    1    .10000    .00000    .07333   1.0000   .0000  -.0000    .00384    .0000  1.0000   .0000    .0000  -.0000  1.0000
    2    .10000    .01549    .01549   1.0000   .0000  -.0000    .00096    .0000  1.0000   .0000    .0000  -.0000  1.0000
    3    .10000   -.01549    .01549   1.0000   .0000  -.0000    .00096    .0000  1.0000   .0000    .0000  -.0000  1.0000
    4    .10000   -.01549   -.01549   1.0000   .0000  -.0000    .00096    .0000  1.0000   .0000    .0000  -.0000  1.0000
    5    .10000    .01549   -.01549   1.0000   .0000  -.0000    .00096    .0000  1.0000   .0000    .0000  -.0000  1.0000
    6    .10000    .00000   -.07333   1.0000   .0000  -.0000    .00384    .0000  1.0000   .0000    .0000  -.0000  1.0000
    7    .08660    .05000    .07333    .8660   .5000  -.0000    .00384   -.5000   .8660   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
    8    .08660    .05000    .00000    .8660   .5000  -.0000    .00384   -.5000   .8660   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
    9    .08660    .05000   -.07333    .8660   .5000  -.0000    .00384   -.5000   .8660   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   10    .06890    .00000    .11000   -.0000   .0000  1.0000    .00449   1.0000   .0000   .0000    .0000  1.0000  -.0000
   11    .06890    .00000   -.11000    .0000   .0000 -1.0000    .00449   1.0000   .0000   .0000    .0000 -1.0000  -.0000
   12    .05000    .08660    .07333    .5000   .8660  -.0000    .00384   -.8660   .5000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   13    .05000    .08660    .00000    .5000   .8660  -.0000    .00384   -.8660   .5000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   14    .05000    .08660   -.07333    .5000   .8660  -.0000    .00384   -.8660   .5000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   15   0.00000    .10000    .07333   0.0000  1.0000   .0000    .00384  -1.0000  0.0000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   16   0.00000    .10000    .00000   0.0000  1.0000   .0000    .00384  -1.0000  0.0000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   17   0.00000    .10000   -.07333   0.0000  1.0000   .0000    .00384  -1.0000  0.0000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   18    .03445    .05967    .11000   -.0000   .0000  1.0000    .00449    .5000   .8660   .0000   -.8660   .5000  -.0000
   19    .03445    .05967   -.11000    .0000   .0000 -1.0000    .00449    .5000   .8660   .0000    .8660  -.5000  -.0000
   20   -.05000    .08660    .07333   -.5000   .8660   .0000    .00384   -.8660  -.5000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   21   -.05000    .08660    .00000   -.5000   .8660   .0000    .00384   -.8660  -.5000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   22   -.05000    .08660   -.07333   -.5000   .8660   .0000    .00384   -.8660  -.5000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   23   -.08660    .05000    .07333   -.8660   .5000   .0000    .00384   -.5000  -.8660   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   24   -.08660    .05000    .00000   -.8660   .5000   .0000    .00384   -.5000  -.8660   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   25   -.08660    .05000   -.07333   -.8660   .5000   .0000    .00384   -.5000  -.8660   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   26   -.03445    .05967    .11000    .0000  -.0000  1.0000    .00449   -.5000   .8660   .0000   -.8660  -.5000  -.0000
   27   -.03445    .05967   -.11000   -.0000   .0000 -1.0000    .00449   -.5000   .8660   .0000    .8660   .5000  -.0000
   28   -.10000   0.00000    .07333  -1.0000  0.0000   .0000    .00384   0.0000 -1.0000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   29   -.10000   0.00000    .00000  -1.0000  0.0000   .0000    .00384   0.0000 -1.0000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   30   -.10000   0.00000   -.07333  -1.0000  0.0000   .0000    .00384   0.0000 -1.0000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   31   -.08660   -.05000    .07333   -.8660  -.5000   .0000    .00384    .5000  -.8660   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   32   -.08660   -.05000    .00000   -.8660  -.5000   .0000    .00384    .5000  -.8660   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   33   -.08660   -.05000   -.07333   -.8660  -.5000   .0000    .00384    .5000  -.8660   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   34   -.06890   0.00000    .11000    .0000   .0000  1.0000    .00449  -1.0000  0.0000   .0000   0.0000 -1.0000  -.0000
   35   -.06890   0.00000   -.11000    .0000  -.0000 -1.0000    .00449  -1.0000  0.0000   .0000   0.0000  1.0000  -.0000
   36   -.05000   -.08660    .07333   -.5000  -.8660   .0000    .00384    .8660  -.5000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   37   -.05000   -.08660    .00000   -.5000  -.8660   .0000    .00384    .8660  -.5000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   38   -.05000   -.08660   -.07333   -.5000  -.8660   .0000    .00384    .8660  -.5000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   39   0.00000   -.10000    .07333   0.0000 -1.0000   .0000    .00384   1.0000  0.0000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   40   0.00000   -.10000    .00000   0.0000 -1.0000   .0000    .00384   1.0000  0.0000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   41   0.00000   -.10000   -.07333   0.0000 -1.0000   .0000    .00384   1.0000  0.0000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   42   -.03445   -.05967    .11000    .0000   .0000  1.0000    .00449   -.5000  -.8660   .0000    .8660  -.5000  -.0000
   43   -.03445   -.05967   -.11000    .0000  -.0000 -1.0000    .00449   -.5000  -.8660   .0000   -.8660   .5000  -.0000
   44    .05000   -.08660    .07333    .5000  -.8660   .0000    .00384    .8660   .5000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   45    .05000   -.08660    .00000    .5000  -.8660   .0000    .00384    .8660   .5000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   46    .05000   -.08660   -.07333    .5000  -.8660   .0000    .00384    .8660   .5000   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   47    .08660   -.05000    .07333    .8660  -.5000   .0000    .00384    .5000   .8660   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   48    .08660   -.05000    .00000    .8660  -.5000   .0000    .00384    .5000   .8660   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   49    .08660   -.05000   -.07333    .8660  -.5000   .0000    .00384    .5000   .8660   .0000    .0000   .0000  1.0000
   50    .03445   -.05967    .11000    .0000   .0000  1.0000    .00449    .5000  -.8660   .0000    .8660   .5000  -.0000
   51    .03445   -.05967   -.11000    .0000   .0000 -1.0000    .00449    .5000  -.8660   .0000   -.8660  -.5000  -.0000
   52    .01675    .01675    .11000   -.0000   .0000  1.0000    .00112   1.0000   .0000   .0000    .0000  1.0000  -.0000
   53   -.01675    .01675    .11000   -.0000   .0000  1.0000    .00112   1.0000   .0000   .0000    .0000  1.0000  -.0000
   54   -.01675   -.01675    .11000   -.0000   .0000  1.0000    .00112   1.0000   .0000   .0000    .0000  1.0000  -.0000
   55    .01675   -.01675    .11000   -.0000   .0000  1.0000    .00112   1.0000   .0000   .0000    .0000  1.0000  -.0000
   56    .00000    .00000   -.11000    .0000   .0000 -1.0000    .00449   1.0000   .0000   .0000    .0000 -1.0000  -.0000






 ***** DATA CARD NO.  1   FR   0     1     0     0  4.65840E+02  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  2   CP   1     1     2     1  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  3   EX   0     1     1     1  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  4   RP   0    73     1  1000  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  5.00000E+00  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01




                                 - - - - - - FREQUENCY - - - - - -

                                    FREQUENCY= 4.6584E+02 MHZ
                                    WAVELENGTH= 6.4357E-01 METERS




                    APPROXIMATE INTEGRATION EMPLOYED FOR SEGMENTS MORE THAN   1.000 WAVELENGTHS APART



                               - - - STRUCTURE IMPEDANCE LOADING - - -

                                   THIS STRUCTURE IS NOT LOADED



                                  - - - ANTENNA ENVIRONMENT - - -

                                            FREE SPACE



                                - - - MATRIX TIMING - - -

                        FILL=     .000 SEC.,  FACTOR=     .000 SEC.



                                          - - - ANTENNA INPUT PARAMETERS - - -

   TAG   SEG.    VOLTAGE (VOLTS)         CURRENT (AMPS)         IMPEDANCE (OHMS)        ADMITTANCE (MHOS)      POWER
   NO.   NO.    REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.     (WATTS)
     1     1 1.00000E+00 0.00000E-01 1.25132E-03 8.29226E-03 1.77928E+01-1.17909E+02 1.25132E-03 8.29226E-03 6.25660E-04



                             - - - CURRENTS AND LOCATION - - -

                                 DISTANCES IN WAVELENGTHS


  SEG.  TAG    COORD. OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.            - - - CURRENT (AMPS) - - -
  NO.   NO.     X        Y        Z      LENGTH     REAL        IMAG.       MAG.        PHASE
     1    1    .0000    .0000    .1942   .04662   1.2513E-03  8.2923E-03  8.3861E-03   81.419
     2    1    .0000    .0000    .2408   .04662   1.0975E-03  6.5800E-03  6.6709E-03   80.531
     3    1    .0000    .0000    .2875   .04662   7.9167E-04  4.3758E-03  4.4468E-03   79.745
     4    1    .0000    .0000    .3341   .04662   3.3076E-04  1.7250E-03  1.7564E-03   79.146
     5    2    .1827    .0000    .0000   .05470  -7.5903E-04  1.5534E-03  1.7289E-03  116.041
     6    2    .2374    .0000    .0000   .05470  -7.0144E-04  1.4307E-03  1.5934E-03  116.118
     7    2    .2921    .0000    .0000   .05470  -5.8434E-04  1.1901E-03  1.3258E-03  116.152
     8    2    .3468    .0000    .0000   .05470  -4.0799E-04  8.3173E-04  9.2641E-04  116.130
     9    2    .4015    .0000    .0000   .05470  -1.6997E-04  3.4747E-04  3.8681E-04  116.067




                                         - - - - SURFACE PATCH CURRENTS - - - -

                                                  DISTANCE IN WAVELENGTHS
                                                  CURRENT IN AMPS/METER

                            - - SURFACE COMPONENTS - -                   - - - RECTANGULAR COMPONENTS - - -
      PATCH CENTER      TANGENT VECTOR 1   TANGENT VECTOR 2           X                   Y                   Z
     X      Y      Z     MAG.       PHASE   MAG.       PHASE    REAL      IMAG.    REAL      IMAG.    REAL      IMAG.
    1
    .155   .000   .114 8.2306E-10 -137.07 7.1961E-03  -35.22  0.00E-01 -0.00E-01 -6.03E-10 -5.61E-10  5.88E-03 -4.15E-03
    2
    .155   .024   .024 9.0011E-03  -65.46 1.4220E-02  -51.34  0.00E-01 -0.00E-01  3.74E-03 -8.19E-03  8.88E-03 -1.11E-02
    3
    .155  -.024   .024 9.0011E-03  114.54 1.4220E-02  -51.34  0.00E-01  0.00E-01 -3.74E-03  8.19E-03  8.88E-03 -1.11E-02
    4
    .155  -.024  -.024 9.0080E-03  114.49 5.0962E-03   84.31  0.00E-01  0.00E-01 -3.73E-03  8.20E-03  5.06E-04  5.07E-03
    5
    .155   .024  -.024 9.0079E-03  -65.51 5.0962E-03   84.31  0.00E-01  0.00E-01  3.73E-03 -8.20E-03  5.06E-04  5.07E-03
    6
    .155   .000  -.114 6.8882E-10  118.13 1.5973E-03   12.53  0.00E-01  0.00E-01 -3.25E-10  6.07E-10  1.56E-03  3.46E-04
    7
    .135   .078   .114 1.8792E-03  -94.87 5.5428E-03  -11.30  7.97E-05  9.36E-04 -1.38E-04 -1.62E-03  5.44E-03 -1.09E-03
    8
    .135   .078   .000 3.9148E-03  -75.49 5.3139E-03  -33.00 -4.90E-04  1.89E-03  8.49E-04 -3.28E-03  4.46E-03 -2.89E-03
    9
    .135   .078  -.114 1.8133E-03  -94.60 2.9184E-03  -33.42  7.28E-05  9.04E-04 -1.26E-04 -1.57E-03  2.44E-03 -1.61E-03
   10
    .107   .000   .171 1.3691E-02 -104.81 1.1337E-09 -154.91 -3.50E-03 -1.32E-02 -1.03E-09 -4.81E-10  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   11
    .107   .000  -.171 1.5187E-03  -10.62 1.0574E-09  -70.17  1.49E-03 -2.80E-04 -3.59E-10  9.95E-10  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   12
    .078   .135   .114 1.6705E-03 -129.81 4.7414E-03   -8.86  9.26E-04  1.11E-03 -5.35E-04 -6.42E-04  4.68E-03 -7.30E-04
   13
    .078   .135   .000 1.6294E-03 -112.84 5.3699E-03  -33.12  5.48E-04  1.30E-03 -3.16E-04 -7.51E-04  4.50E-03 -2.93E-03
   14
    .078   .135  -.114 1.7226E-03 -128.58 4.1506E-03  -48.62  9.30E-04  1.17E-03 -5.37E-04 -6.73E-04  2.74E-03 -3.11E-03
   15
   0.000   .155   .114 1.4450E-03 -160.34 5.3232E-03   11.87  1.36E-03  4.86E-04  4.06E-11  1.45E-11  5.21E-03  1.09E-03
   16
   0.000   .155   .000 1.2074E-03 -155.49 5.3690E-03  -32.95  1.10E-03  5.01E-04  3.27E-11  1.49E-11  4.51E-03 -2.92E-03
   17
   0.000   .155  -.114 1.4416E-03 -160.26 4.6031E-03  -54.61  1.36E-03  4.87E-04  4.04E-11  1.45E-11  2.67E-03 -3.75E-03
   18
    .054   .093   .171 1.4845E-02 -105.23 1.6076E-03 -145.64 -8.01E-04 -6.38E-03 -4.04E-03 -1.29E-02  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   19
    .054   .093  -.171 1.7548E-03  -50.91 1.6063E-03   35.02  1.69E-03  1.17E-04  3.00E-04 -1.64E-03  0.00E-01 -0.00E-01
   20
   -.078   .135   .114 1.3169E-03 -178.68 5.0409E-03   -2.54  1.14E-03  2.63E-05  6.58E-04  1.52E-05  5.04E-03 -2.24E-04
   21
   -.078   .135   .000 9.9495E-04  178.63 5.3744E-03  -33.13  8.61E-04 -2.05E-05  4.97E-04 -1.19E-05  4.50E-03 -2.94E-03
   22
   -.078   .135  -.114 1.3019E-03  178.62 4.3371E-03  -56.62  1.13E-03 -2.72E-05  6.51E-04 -1.57E-05  2.39E-03 -3.62E-03
   23
   -.135   .078   .114 7.0536E-04  161.19 5.7472E-03    9.56  3.34E-04 -1.14E-04  5.78E-04 -1.97E-04  5.67E-03  9.54E-04
   24
   -.135   .078   .000 5.8000E-04  165.30 5.3716E-03  -33.03  2.81E-04 -7.36E-05  4.86E-04 -1.27E-04  4.50E-03 -2.93E-03
   25
   -.135   .078  -.114 6.9540E-04  166.60 4.2602E-03  -58.97  3.38E-04 -8.06E-05  5.86E-04 -1.40E-04  2.20E-03 -3.65E-03
   26
   -.054   .093   .171 1.5570E-02 -109.02 1.4143E-03 -176.69  3.76E-03  7.43E-03 -3.69E-03 -1.27E-02  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   27
   -.054   .093  -.171 1.7609E-03  -92.00 1.4055E-03    2.99  1.25E-03  9.43E-04  6.48E-04 -1.49E-03 -0.00E-01 -0.00E-01
   28
   -.155  0.000   .114 1.0996E-09   43.34 5.2708E-03   -3.82  4.77E-17  4.50E-17 -8.00E-10 -7.55E-10  5.26E-03 -3.51E-04
   29
   -.155  0.000   .000 6.9614E-10  -76.06 5.3701E-03  -33.05  1.00E-17 -4.03E-17 -1.68E-10  6.76E-10  4.50E-03 -2.93E-03
   30
   -.155  0.000  -.114 1.0166E-09  -57.35 4.0753E-03  -57.88  3.27E-17 -5.10E-17 -5.48E-10  8.56E-10  2.17E-03 -3.45E-03
   31
   -.135  -.078   .114 7.0536E-04  -18.81 5.7472E-03    9.56  3.34E-04 -1.14E-04 -5.78E-04  1.97E-04  5.67E-03  9.54E-04
   32
   -.135  -.078   .000 5.8000E-04  -14.70 5.3716E-03  -33.03  2.81E-04 -7.36E-05 -4.86E-04  1.27E-04  4.50E-03 -2.93E-03
   33
   -.135  -.078  -.114 6.9541E-04  -13.40 4.2602E-03  -58.97  3.38E-04 -8.06E-05 -5.86E-04  1.40E-04  2.20E-03 -3.65E-03
   34
   -.107  0.000   .171 1.5557E-02 -111.31 1.7509E-09   55.73  5.65E-03  1.45E-02 -6.49E-10 -5.83E-10 -0.00E-01 -0.00E-01
   35
   -.107  0.000  -.171 1.6720E-03 -112.54 1.4723E-09  138.28  6.41E-04  1.54E-03 -1.06E-09  1.07E-09  0.00E-01 -0.00E-01
   36
   -.078  -.135   .114 1.3169E-03    1.32 5.0409E-03   -2.54  1.14E-03  2.63E-05 -6.58E-04 -1.52E-05  5.04E-03 -2.24E-04
   37
   -.078  -.135   .000 9.9495E-04   -1.37 5.3744E-03  -33.13  8.61E-04 -2.05E-05 -4.97E-04  1.19E-05  4.50E-03 -2.94E-03
   38
   -.078  -.135  -.114 1.3019E-03   -1.38 4.3371E-03  -56.62  1.13E-03 -2.72E-05 -6.51E-04  1.57E-05  2.39E-03 -3.62E-03
   39
   0.000  -.155   .114 1.4450E-03   19.66 5.3232E-03   11.87  1.36E-03  4.86E-04  1.62E-10  5.79E-11  5.21E-03  1.09E-03
   40
   0.000  -.155   .000 1.2074E-03   24.51 5.3690E-03  -32.95  1.10E-03  5.01E-04  1.31E-10  5.97E-11  4.51E-03 -2.92E-03
   41
   0.000  -.155  -.114 1.4416E-03   19.74 4.6031E-03  -54.61  1.36E-03  4.87E-04  1.62E-10  5.80E-11  2.67E-03 -3.75E-03
   42
   -.054  -.093   .171 1.5569E-02 -109.02 1.4143E-03    3.31  3.76E-03  7.43E-03  3.69E-03  1.27E-02 -0.00E-01 -0.00E-01
   43
   -.054  -.093  -.171 1.7609E-03  -92.00 1.4055E-03 -177.01  1.25E-03  9.43E-04 -6.48E-04  1.49E-03  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   44
    .078  -.135   .114 1.6705E-03   50.19 4.7414E-03   -8.86  9.26E-04  1.11E-03  5.35E-04  6.42E-04  4.68E-03 -7.30E-04
   45
    .078  -.135   .000 1.6294E-03   67.16 5.3699E-03  -33.12  5.48E-04  1.30E-03  3.16E-04  7.51E-04  4.50E-03 -2.93E-03
   46
    .078  -.135  -.114 1.7226E-03   51.42 4.1506E-03  -48.62  9.30E-04  1.17E-03  5.37E-04  6.73E-04  2.74E-03 -3.11E-03
   47
    .135  -.078   .114 1.8792E-03   85.13 5.5428E-03  -11.30  7.97E-05  9.36E-04  1.38E-04  1.62E-03  5.44E-03 -1.09E-03
   48
    .135  -.078   .000 3.9148E-03  104.51 5.3139E-03  -33.00 -4.90E-04  1.89E-03 -8.49E-04  3.28E-03  4.46E-03 -2.89E-03
   49
    .135  -.078  -.114 1.8133E-03   85.40 2.9184E-03  -33.42  7.28E-05  9.04E-04  1.26E-04  1.57E-03  2.44E-03 -1.61E-03
   50
    .054  -.093   .171 1.4845E-02 -105.23 1.6076E-03   34.36 -8.01E-04 -6.38E-03  4.04E-03  1.29E-02 -0.00E-01 -0.00E-01
   51
    .054  -.093  -.171 1.7548E-03  -50.91 1.6063E-03 -144.98  1.69E-03  1.17E-04 -3.00E-04  1.64E-03  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   52
    .026   .026   .171 3.7707E-02  -97.61 3.8523E-02  -99.40 -4.99E-03 -3.74E-02 -6.29E-03 -3.80E-02  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   53
   -.026   .026   .171 3.8971E-02   78.78 3.8496E-02  -99.34  7.58E-03  3.82E-02 -6.25E-03 -3.80E-02  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   54
   -.026  -.026   .171 3.8971E-02   78.78 3.8496E-02   80.66  7.58E-03  3.82E-02  6.25E-03  3.80E-02  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   55
    .026  -.026   .171 3.7707E-02  -97.61 3.8523E-02   80.60 -4.99E-03 -3.74E-02  6.29E-03  3.80E-02 -0.00E-01 -0.00E-01
   56
    .000   .000  -.171 1.3523E-03   18.00 1.2976E-09  -58.81  1.29E-03  4.18E-04 -6.72E-10  1.11E-09  0.00E-01  0.00E-01



                                        - - - POWER BUDGET - - -

                                           INPUT POWER   = 6.2566E-04 WATTS
                                           RADIATED POWER= 6.2566E-04 WATTS
                                           STRUCTURE LOSS= 0.0000E-01 WATTS
                                           NETWORK LOSS  = 0.0000E-01 WATTS
                                           EFFICIENCY    = 100.00 PERCENT



                                                - - - RADIATION PATTERNS - - -

  - - ANGLES - -           - POWER GAINS -       - - - POLARIZATION - - -    - - - E(THETA) - - -    - - - E(PHI) - - -
  THETA     PHI        VERT.   HOR.    TOTAL      AXIAL     TILT   SENSE     MAGNITUDE    PHASE     MAGNITUDE    PHASE
 DEGREES  DEGREES       DB      DB      DB        RATIO     DEG.              VOLTS/M    DEGREES      VOLTS/M    DEGREES
     .00      .00      -8.11 -145.92   -8.11    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    7.61669E-02    -2.26    9.79259E-09   -81.36
    5.00      .00      -8.34 -149.37   -8.34    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    7.41602E-02    -2.08    6.58361E-09   -69.02
   10.00      .00      -8.85 -145.42   -8.85    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    6.99499E-02    -2.76    1.03806E-08  -111.51
   15.00      .00      -9.70 -147.83   -9.70    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    6.33760E-02    -4.63    7.86732E-09   -91.91
   20.00      .00     -11.01 -148.43  -11.01    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    5.44956E-02    -8.24    7.33620E-09  -174.02
   25.00      .00     -12.94 -144.61  -12.94    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    4.36416E-02   -14.78    1.13919E-08  -113.95
   30.00      .00     -15.74 -144.06  -15.74    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    3.16466E-02   -27.33    1.21418E-08  -121.58
   35.00      .00     -19.30 -145.83  -19.30    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.09977E-02   -55.34    9.90304E-09  -129.72
   40.00      .00     -19.97 -150.11  -19.97    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.94288E-02  -107.78    6.04458E-09  -138.61
   45.00      .00     -16.08 -161.08  -16.08    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    3.04205E-02  -145.28    1.70958E-09   125.00
   50.00      .00     -12.40 -160.36  -12.40    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    4.64488E-02  -163.87    1.85801E-09  -172.34
   55.00      .00      -9.60 -150.67   -9.60    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    6.41559E-02  -175.93    5.67075E-09    81.70
   60.00      .00      -7.40 -155.62   -7.40    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    8.26330E-02   174.32    3.20721E-09    75.14
   65.00      .00      -5.61 -144.42   -5.61    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.01577E-01   165.52    1.16394E-08   147.06
   70.00      .00      -4.10 -144.86   -4.10    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.20850E-01   157.18    1.10625E-08   124.46
   75.00      .00      -2.80 -143.11   -2.80    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.40312E-01   149.15    1.35334E-08   122.02
   80.00      .00      -1.67 -141.35   -1.67    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.59736E-01   141.42    1.65860E-08   115.82
   85.00      .00       -.70 -139.77    -.70    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.78758E-01   133.99    1.98840E-08   108.79
   90.00      .00        .14 -138.41     .14    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.96870E-01   126.92    2.32483E-08   108.46
   95.00      .00        .84 -137.40     .84    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.13447E-01   120.23    2.61185E-08   102.58
  100.00      .00       1.41 -137.04    1.41    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.27788E-01   113.95    2.72363E-08    98.49
  105.00      .00       1.83 -134.57    1.83    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.39180E-01   108.08    3.61761E-08   120.29
  110.00      .00       2.11 -134.36    2.11    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.46958E-01   102.65    3.70790E-08   113.58
  115.00      .00       2.24 -133.96    2.24    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.50561E-01    97.66    3.88272E-08   112.65
  120.00      .00       2.20 -133.94    2.20    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.49579E-01    93.15    3.89178E-08   104.56
  125.00      .00       2.00 -132.55    2.00    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.43788E-01    89.16    4.56769E-08   115.42
  130.00      .00       1.61 -132.26    1.61    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.33171E-01    85.74    4.72062E-08   104.46
  135.00      .00       1.02 -132.65    1.02    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.17933E-01    82.99    4.51247E-08    96.16
  140.00      .00        .21 -131.58     .21    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.98504E-01    81.07    5.10647E-08    89.61
  145.00      .00       -.85 -130.91    -.85    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.75552E-01    80.23    5.51472E-08    98.01
  150.00      .00      -2.22 -131.89   -2.22    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.50003E-01    80.93    4.92915E-08   100.64
  155.00      .00      -3.93 -130.37   -3.93    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.23133E-01    83.98    5.86798E-08    97.69
  160.00      .00      -6.02 -130.36   -6.02    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    9.68259E-02    90.95    5.87511E-08    98.17
  165.00      .00      -8.33 -131.25   -8.33    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    7.42605E-02   104.77    5.30129E-08    94.31
  170.00      .00     -10.04 -130.46  -10.04    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    6.09919E-02   128.42    5.80971E-08    99.67
  175.00      .00      -9.83 -130.45   -9.83    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    6.24516E-02   156.53    5.81702E-08    91.38
  180.00      .00      -8.13 -130.43   -8.13    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    7.59535E-02   177.76    5.82939E-08    93.98
  185.00      .00      -6.24 -132.34   -6.24    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    9.43838E-02  -168.89    4.67661E-08    93.33
  190.00      .00      -4.65 -131.57   -4.65    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.13347E-01  -159.93    5.11003E-08    90.55
  195.00      .00      -3.40 -131.12   -3.40    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.30926E-01  -152.98    5.38616E-08    93.78
  200.00      .00      -2.43 -131.85   -2.43    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.46405E-01  -146.80    4.94915E-08    94.57
  205.00      .00      -1.68 -132.69   -1.68    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.59675E-01  -140.77    4.49235E-08    90.45
  210.00      .00      -1.08 -133.02   -1.08    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.70952E-01  -134.56    4.32514E-08    93.88
  215.00      .00       -.61 -133.78    -.61    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.80612E-01  -128.05    3.96429E-08    92.19
  220.00      .00       -.21 -133.12    -.21    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.89044E-01  -121.22    4.27730E-08    99.03
  225.00      .00        .13 -134.58     .13    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.96539E-01  -114.15    3.61401E-08    94.18
  230.00      .00        .42 -133.59     .42    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.03206E-01  -106.92    4.05276E-08    94.20
  235.00      .00        .66 -134.17     .66    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.08951E-01   -99.67    3.79106E-08    95.65
  240.00      .00        .85 -134.36     .85    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.13503E-01   -92.48    3.70592E-08    96.96
  245.00      .00        .97 -135.55     .97    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.16481E-01   -85.42    3.23151E-08    91.49
  250.00      .00       1.01 -135.82    1.01    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.17478E-01   -78.55    3.13543E-08    88.09
  255.00      .00        .95 -137.17     .95    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.16147E-01   -71.88    2.68297E-08    89.41
  260.00      .00        .80 -138.93     .80    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.12257E-01   -65.41    2.19092E-08    93.60
  265.00      .00        .52 -138.14     .52    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.05736E-01   -59.16    2.39974E-08   119.62
  270.00      .00        .13 -138.37     .13    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.96690E-01   -53.13    2.33769E-08    90.75
  275.00      .00       -.38 -140.37    -.38    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.85395E-01   -47.32    1.85623E-08   107.31
  280.00      .00      -1.02 -142.72   -1.02    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.72285E-01   -41.75    1.41596E-08    90.68
  285.00      .00      -1.77 -144.43   -1.77    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.57915E-01   -36.46    1.16280E-08    99.32
  290.00      .00      -2.64 -145.56   -2.64    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.42926E-01   -31.49    1.02109E-08   121.78
  295.00      .00      -3.60 -149.41   -3.60    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.27994E-01   -26.91    6.55236E-09   133.09
  300.00      .00      -4.62 -152.39   -4.62    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.13792E-01   -22.79    4.65211E-09    41.79
  305.00      .00      -5.66 -145.17   -5.66    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    1.00935E-01   -19.23    1.06751E-08   175.92
  310.00      .00      -6.66 -177.46   -6.66    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    8.99418E-02   -16.30    2.59574E-10  -107.34
  315.00      .00      -7.55 -153.21   -7.55    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    8.11945E-02   -14.02    4.23319E-09   -66.83
  320.00      .00      -8.25 -158.75   -8.25    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    7.48973E-02   -12.33    2.23579E-09   -93.20
  325.00      .00      -8.71 -146.52   -8.71    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    7.10490E-02   -11.02    9.14371E-09  -102.11
  330.00      .00      -8.91 -145.13   -8.91    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    6.94311E-02    -9.84    1.07239E-08  -105.30
  335.00      .00      -8.89 -146.62   -8.89    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    6.96292E-02    -8.60    9.03758E-09  -120.77
  340.00      .00      -8.71 -148.98   -8.71    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    7.10808E-02    -7.21    6.89128E-09   -61.50
  345.00      .00      -8.46 -145.81   -8.46    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    7.31340E-02    -5.72    9.91779E-09   -76.09
  350.00      .00      -8.23 -143.78   -8.23    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    7.51023E-02    -4.27    1.25291E-08   -79.11
  355.00      .00      -8.09 -143.32   -8.09    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    7.63154E-02    -3.06    1.32168E-08   -87.43
  360.00      .00      -8.11 -149.72   -8.11    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    7.61669E-02    -2.26    6.32676E-09   -76.55






 ***** DATA CARD NO.  5   EX   0     2     1     0  1.00000E+00  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  6   XQ   0     0     0     0  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01



                                          - - - ANTENNA INPUT PARAMETERS - - -

   TAG   SEG.    VOLTAGE (VOLTS)         CURRENT (AMPS)         IMPEDANCE (OHMS)        ADMITTANCE (MHOS)      POWER
   NO.   NO.    REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.       REAL        IMAG.     (WATTS)
     2     5 1.00000E+00 0.00000E-01 1.50257E-02-6.91341E-03 5.49253E+01 2.52715E+01 1.50257E-02-6.91341E-03 7.51283E-03



                             - - - CURRENTS AND LOCATION - - -

                                 DISTANCES IN WAVELENGTHS


  SEG.  TAG    COORD. OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.            - - - CURRENT (AMPS) - - -
  NO.   NO.     X        Y        Z      LENGTH     REAL        IMAG.       MAG.        PHASE
     1    1    .0000    .0000    .1942   .04662  -9.0545E-04  1.7153E-03  1.9397E-03  117.828
     2    1    .0000    .0000    .2408   .04662  -7.8764E-04  1.5063E-03  1.6998E-03  117.604
     3    1    .0000    .0000    .2875   .04662  -5.5895E-04  1.0891E-03  1.2241E-03  117.169
     4    1    .0000    .0000    .3341   .04662  -2.2826E-04  4.5625E-04  5.1016E-04  116.579
     5    2    .1827    .0000    .0000   .05470   1.5026E-02 -6.9134E-03  1.6540E-02  -24.707
     6    2    .2374    .0000    .0000   .05470   1.3800E-02 -7.4045E-03  1.5661E-02  -28.217
     7    2    .2921    .0000    .0000   .05470   1.1401E-02 -6.7803E-03  1.3265E-02  -30.741
     8    2    .3468    .0000    .0000   .05470   7.8886E-03 -5.0213E-03  9.3511E-03  -32.478
     9    2    .4015    .0000    .0000   .05470   3.2560E-03 -2.1815E-03  3.9192E-03  -33.822




                                         - - - - SURFACE PATCH CURRENTS - - - -

                                                  DISTANCE IN WAVELENGTHS
                                                  CURRENT IN AMPS/METER

                            - - SURFACE COMPONENTS - -                   - - - RECTANGULAR COMPONENTS - - -
      PATCH CENTER      TANGENT VECTOR 1   TANGENT VECTOR 2           X                   Y                   Z
     X      Y      Z     MAG.       PHASE   MAG.       PHASE    REAL      IMAG.    REAL      IMAG.    REAL      IMAG.
    1
    .155   .000   .114 4.9007E-09  -74.04 4.0390E-02  140.22  0.00E-01  0.00E-01  1.35E-09 -4.71E-09 -3.10E-02  2.58E-02
    2
    .155   .024   .024 8.6314E-02  153.29 8.8849E-02  152.99 -0.00E-01  0.00E-01 -7.71E-02  3.88E-02 -7.92E-02  4.04E-02
    3
    .155  -.024   .024 8.6314E-02  -26.71 8.8849E-02  152.99  0.00E-01  0.00E-01  7.71E-02 -3.88E-02 -7.92E-02  4.04E-02
    4
    .155  -.024  -.024 8.6311E-02  -26.71 9.1285E-02  -26.16  0.00E-01 -0.00E-01  7.71E-02 -3.88E-02  8.19E-02 -4.02E-02
    5
    .155   .024  -.024 8.6311E-02  153.29 9.1285E-02  -26.16  0.00E-01  0.00E-01 -7.71E-02  3.88E-02  8.19E-02 -4.02E-02
    6
    .155   .000  -.114 3.9029E-09  -82.46 4.1813E-02  -37.70  0.00E-01 -0.00E-01  5.12E-10 -3.87E-09  3.31E-02 -2.56E-02
    7
    .135   .078   .114 1.7533E-02  121.83 2.2201E-02  129.65  4.62E-03 -7.45E-03 -8.01E-03  1.29E-02 -1.42E-02  1.71E-02
    8
    .135   .078   .000 3.7640E-02  141.92 1.3236E-03    2.35  1.48E-02 -1.16E-02 -2.57E-02  2.01E-02  1.32E-03  5.43E-05
    9
    .135   .078  -.114 1.7516E-02  121.83 2.3096E-02  -45.71  4.62E-03 -7.44E-03 -8.00E-03  1.29E-02  1.61E-02 -1.65E-02
   10
    .107   .000   .171 2.0213E-02  -85.04 8.2560E-09  -33.16  1.75E-03 -2.01E-02  6.91E-09 -4.52E-09  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   11
    .107   .000  -.171 1.6874E-02  -87.11 6.7417E-09  125.50  8.52E-04 -1.69E-02  3.91E-09 -5.49E-09  0.00E-01 -0.00E-01
   12
    .078   .135   .114 1.6710E-02   87.52 6.2224E-03  106.04 -6.27E-04 -1.45E-02  3.62E-04  8.35E-03 -1.72E-03  5.98E-03
   13
    .078   .135   .000 1.5767E-02  103.50 1.3327E-03    2.80  3.19E-03 -1.33E-02 -1.84E-03  7.67E-03  1.33E-03  6.52E-05
   14
    .078   .135  -.114 1.6653E-02   87.44 6.8117E-03  -56.50 -6.43E-04 -1.44E-02  3.71E-04  8.32E-03  3.76E-03 -5.68E-03
   15
   0.000   .155   .114 1.3965E-02   55.64 1.7990E-03   89.81 -7.88E-03 -1.15E-02 -2.35E-10 -3.44E-10  5.87E-06  1.80E-03
   16
   0.000   .155   .000 1.1670E-02   60.48 1.3310E-03    3.41 -5.75E-03 -1.02E-02 -1.71E-10 -3.03E-10  1.33E-03  7.92E-05
   17
   0.000   .155  -.114 1.3951E-02   55.62 2.2807E-03  -31.00 -7.88E-03 -1.15E-02 -2.35E-10 -3.43E-10  1.95E-03 -1.17E-03
   18
    .054   .093   .171 9.5476E-03  -98.11 1.5574E-02   70.78 -5.11E-03 -1.75E-02  1.40E-03 -8.33E-04 -0.00E-01 -0.00E-01
   19
    .054   .093  -.171 6.5730E-03 -109.90 1.5542E-02 -109.24 -5.56E-03 -1.58E-02  6.24E-04  1.98E-03  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   20
   -.078   .135   .114 1.2623E-02   34.28 1.5698E-03  179.32 -9.03E-03 -6.16E-03 -5.22E-03 -3.55E-03 -1.57E-03  1.86E-05
   21
   -.078   .135   .000 9.6162E-03   34.25 1.3372E-03    3.28 -6.88E-03 -4.69E-03 -3.97E-03 -2.71E-03  1.33E-03  7.65E-05
   22
   -.078   .135  -.114 1.2602E-02   34.42 3.6441E-03    5.05 -9.00E-03 -6.17E-03 -5.20E-03 -3.56E-03  3.63E-03  3.21E-04
   23
   -.135   .078   .114 6.7432E-03   22.42 4.2065E-03 -179.29 -3.12E-03 -1.29E-03 -5.40E-03 -2.23E-03 -4.21E-03 -5.18E-05
   24
   -.135   .078   .000 5.6060E-03   21.56 1.3441E-03    3.20 -2.61E-03 -1.03E-03 -4.52E-03 -1.78E-03  1.34E-03  7.51E-05
   25
   -.135   .078  -.114 6.7304E-03   22.44 6.2415E-03    6.27 -3.11E-03 -1.28E-03 -5.39E-03 -2.22E-03  6.20E-03  6.81E-04
   26
   -.054   .093   .171 5.5922E-03    3.15 1.3634E-02   38.74 -1.20E-02 -7.54E-03 -4.82E-04 -4.00E-03  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   27
   -.054   .093  -.171 5.8821E-03   37.27 1.3609E-02 -141.24 -1.15E-02 -9.16E-03 -1.25E-03 -1.18E-03  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   28
   -.155  0.000   .114 3.3602E-09 -155.80 4.2242E-03  178.48 -1.83E-16 -8.21E-17  3.06E-09  1.38E-09 -4.22E-03  1.12E-04
   29
   -.155  0.000   .000 4.2238E-09   86.14 1.3471E-03    3.05  1.70E-17  2.51E-16 -2.84E-10 -4.21E-09  1.35E-03  7.17E-05
   30
   -.155  0.000  -.114 3.1906E-09  162.32 6.3063E-03    2.13 -1.81E-16  5.78E-17  3.04E-09 -9.69E-10  6.30E-03  2.34E-04
   31
   -.135  -.078   .114 6.7433E-03 -157.58 4.2065E-03 -179.29 -3.12E-03 -1.29E-03  5.40E-03  2.23E-03 -4.21E-03 -5.18E-05
   32
   -.135  -.078   .000 5.6060E-03 -158.44 1.3441E-03    3.20 -2.61E-03 -1.03E-03  4.52E-03  1.78E-03  1.34E-03  7.51E-05
   33
   -.135  -.078  -.114 6.7304E-03 -157.56 6.2415E-03    6.27 -3.11E-03 -1.28E-03  5.39E-03  2.22E-03  6.20E-03  6.81E-04
   34
   -.107  0.000   .171 1.1520E-02    9.48 2.5895E-09 -158.89 -1.14E-02 -1.90E-03  1.74E-09  8.20E-10  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   35
   -.107  0.000  -.171 1.1648E-02   26.24 2.0681E-09   12.28 -1.04E-02 -5.15E-03  1.40E-09  1.33E-10  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   36
   -.078  -.135   .114 1.2623E-02 -145.72 1.5698E-03  179.32 -9.03E-03 -6.16E-03  5.22E-03  3.55E-03 -1.57E-03  1.86E-05
   37
   -.078  -.135   .000 9.6162E-03 -145.75 1.3372E-03    3.28 -6.88E-03 -4.69E-03  3.97E-03  2.71E-03  1.33E-03  7.65E-05
   38
   -.078  -.135  -.114 1.2602E-02 -145.58 3.6441E-03    5.05 -9.00E-03 -6.17E-03  5.20E-03  3.56E-03  3.63E-03  3.21E-04
   39
   0.000  -.155   .114 1.3965E-02 -124.36 1.7990E-03   89.81 -7.88E-03 -1.15E-02 -9.40E-10 -1.37E-09  5.87E-06  1.80E-03
   40
   0.000  -.155   .000 1.1670E-02 -119.52 1.3310E-03    3.41 -5.75E-03 -1.02E-02 -6.85E-10 -1.21E-09  1.33E-03  7.92E-05
   41
   0.000  -.155  -.114 1.3951E-02 -124.38 2.2807E-03  -31.00 -7.88E-03 -1.15E-02 -9.39E-10 -1.37E-09  1.95E-03 -1.17E-03
   42
   -.054  -.093   .171 5.5922E-03    3.15 1.3634E-02 -141.26 -1.20E-02 -7.54E-03  4.82E-04  4.00E-03  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   43
   -.054  -.093  -.171 5.8821E-03   37.27 1.3609E-02   38.76 -1.15E-02 -9.16E-03  1.25E-03  1.18E-03  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   44
    .078  -.135   .114 1.6710E-02  -92.48 6.2224E-03  106.04 -6.27E-04 -1.45E-02 -3.62E-04 -8.35E-03 -1.72E-03  5.98E-03
   45
    .078  -.135   .000 1.5767E-02  -76.50 1.3327E-03    2.80  3.19E-03 -1.33E-02  1.84E-03 -7.67E-03  1.33E-03  6.52E-05
   46
    .078  -.135  -.114 1.6653E-02  -92.56 6.8117E-03  -56.50 -6.43E-04 -1.44E-02 -3.71E-04 -8.32E-03  3.76E-03 -5.68E-03
   47
    .135  -.078   .114 1.7533E-02  -58.17 2.2201E-02  129.65  4.62E-03 -7.45E-03  8.01E-03 -1.29E-02 -1.42E-02  1.71E-02
   48
    .135  -.078   .000 3.7640E-02  -38.08 1.3236E-03    2.35  1.48E-02 -1.16E-02  2.57E-02 -2.01E-02  1.32E-03  5.43E-05
   49
    .135  -.078  -.114 1.7516E-02  -58.17 2.3096E-02  -45.71  4.62E-03 -7.44E-03  8.00E-03 -1.29E-02  1.61E-02 -1.65E-02
   50
    .054  -.093   .171 9.5476E-03  -98.11 1.5574E-02 -109.22 -5.11E-03 -1.75E-02 -1.40E-03  8.33E-04  0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   51
    .054  -.093  -.171 6.5730E-03 -109.90 1.5542E-02   70.76 -5.56E-03 -1.58E-02 -6.24E-04 -1.98E-03 -0.00E-01 -0.00E-01
   52
    .026   .026   .171 2.0110E-02  -97.14 8.6899E-03  -62.33 -2.50E-03 -2.00E-02  4.04E-03 -7.70E-03 -0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   53
   -.026   .026   .171 1.2974E-02 -174.05 8.9441E-03  -64.51 -1.29E-02 -1.35E-03  3.85E-03 -8.07E-03 -0.00E-01  0.00E-01
   54
   -.026  -.026   .171 1.2974E-02 -174.05 8.9441E-03  115.49 -1.29E-02 -1.35E-03 -3.85E-03  8.07E-03  0.00E-01 -0.00E-01
   55
    .026  -.026   .171 2.0110E-02  -97.14 8.6899E-03  117.67 -2.50E-03 -2.00E-02 -4.04E-03  7.70E-03  0.00E-01 -0.00E-01
   56
    .000   .000  -.171 1.3088E-02 -126.31 3.1078E-09  137.30 -7.75E-03 -1.05E-02  2.28E-09 -2.11E-09  0.00E-01 -0.00E-01



                                        - - - POWER BUDGET - - -

                                           INPUT POWER   = 7.5128E-03 WATTS
                                           RADIATED POWER= 7.5128E-03 WATTS
                                           STRUCTURE LOSS= 0.0000E-01 WATTS
                                           NETWORK LOSS  = 0.0000E-01 WATTS
                                           EFFICIENCY    = 100.00 PERCENT



                                    - - - ISOLATION DATA - - -

      - - COUPLING BETWEEN - -        MAXIMUM               - - - FOR MAXIMUM COUPLING - - -
            SEG.              SEG.   COUPLING    LOAD IMPEDANCE (2ND SEG.)       INPUT IMPEDANCE
  TAG/SEG.   NO.    TAG/'SEG.   NO.      (DB)        REAL         IMAG.         REAL         IMAG.
    1    1     1      2    1     5    -13.709     5.58249E+01 -2.06395E+01   1.82294E+01 -1.16438E+02






 ***** DATA CARD NO.  7   EN   0     0     0     0  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01

 RUN TIME =      .000

Examples 7 and 8

Examples 7 and 8 demonstrate the use of NEC for scattering. The columns
labeled "gain" are, in this case, scattering cross section in square
wavelengths (sigma/lamda2). Example 8 is a stick model of an aircraft as
shown in Figure 19.


Input:
CMSAMPLE PROBLEM FOR NEC
CESTICK MODEL OF AIRCRAFT - FREE SPACE
GW  1,    1,    0.,       0.,        0.,        6.,        0.,        0.,       1.,
GW  2    6    6.       0.        0.        44.       0.        0.       1.
GW  3    4    44.      0.        0.        68.       0.        0.       1.
GW  4    6    44.      0.        0.        24.       29.9      0.       1.
GW  5    6    44.      0.        0.        24.       -29.9     0.       1.
GW  6    2    6.       0.        0.        2.        11.3      0.       1.
GW  7    2    6.       0.        0.        2.        -11.3     0.       1.
GW  8    2    6.       0.        0.        2.        0.        10.      1.
GE
FR  0    1    0    0   3.
EX  1    1    1    0   0.
RP  0    1    1 1000   0.        0.        0.
EX  1    1    1    0   90.       30.       -90.
RP  0    1    1 1000   90.       30.
EN

Output:

1



                                 ************************************

                                    NUMERICAL ELECTROMAGNETICS CODE

                                 ************************************




                                     - - - - COMMENTS - - - -


                         SAMPLE PROBLEM FOR NEC                                                      
                         STICK MODEL OF AIRCRAFT - FREE SPACE                                        




                                 - - - STRUCTURE SPECIFICATION - - -

                                     COORDINATES MUST BE INPUT IN
                                     METERS OR BE SCALED TO METERS
                                     BEFORE STRUCTURE INPUT IS ENDED


  WIRE                                                                               NO. OF    FIRST  LAST     TAG
  NO.        X1         Y1         Z1          X2         Y2         Z2      RADIUS   SEG.     SEG.   SEG.     NO.
     1     .00000     .00000     .00000     6.00000     .00000     .00000    1.00000      1        1     1       1
     2    6.00000     .00000     .00000    44.00000     .00000     .00000    1.00000      6        2     7       2
     3   44.00000     .00000     .00000    68.00000     .00000     .00000    1.00000      4        8    11       3
     4   44.00000     .00000     .00000    24.00000   29.90000     .00000    1.00000      6       12    17       4
     5   44.00000     .00000     .00000    24.00000  -29.90000     .00000    1.00000      6       18    23       5
     6    6.00000     .00000     .00000     2.00000   11.30000     .00000    1.00000      2       24    25       6
     7    6.00000     .00000     .00000     2.00000  -11.30000     .00000    1.00000      2       26    27       7
     8    6.00000     .00000     .00000     2.00000     .00000   10.00000    1.00000      2       28    29       8

   TOTAL SEGMENTS USED=   29     NO. SEG. IN A SYMMETRIC CELL=   29     SYMMETRY FLAG=  0


         - MULTIPLE WIRE JUNCTIONS -
 JUNCTION    SEGMENTS  (- FOR END 1, + FOR END 2)
     1         1   -2  -24  -26  -28
     2         7   -8  -12  -18




                                 - - - - SEGMENTATION DATA - - - -

                                        COORDINATES IN METERS

                         I+ AND I- INDICATE THE SEGMENTS BEFORE AND AFTER I


  SEG.   COORDINATES OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.     ORIENTATION ANGLES    WIRE    CONNECTION DATA   TAG
  NO.       X         Y         Z       LENGTH     ALPHA     BETA      RADIUS    I-   I    I+    NO.
     1   3.00000    .00000    .00000   6.00000     .00000    .00000   1.00000     0    1    2      1
     2   9.16667    .00000    .00000   6.33333     .00000    .00000   1.00000   -24    2    3      2
     3  15.50000    .00000    .00000   6.33333     .00000    .00000   1.00000     2    3    4      2
     4  21.83334    .00000    .00000   6.33333     .00000    .00000   1.00000     3    4    5      2
     5  28.16667    .00000    .00000   6.33333     .00000    .00000   1.00000     4    5    6      2
     6  34.50000    .00000    .00000   6.33333     .00000    .00000   1.00000     5    6    7      2
     7  40.83334    .00000    .00000   6.33333     .00000    .00000   1.00000     6    7    8      2
     8  47.00000    .00000    .00000   6.00000     .00000    .00000   1.00000   -12    8    9      3
     9  53.00000    .00000    .00000   6.00000     .00000    .00000   1.00000     8    9   10      3
    10  59.00000    .00000    .00000   6.00000     .00000    .00000   1.00000     9   10   11      3
    11  65.00000    .00000    .00000   6.00000     .00000    .00000   1.00000    10   11    0      3
    12  42.33334   2.49167    .00000   5.99539     .00000 123.77841   1.00000   -18   12   13      4
    13  39.00000   7.47500    .00000   5.99539     .00000 123.77841   1.00000    12   13   14      4
    14  35.66667  12.45833    .00000   5.99539     .00000 123.77841   1.00000    13   14   15      4
    15  32.33334  17.44167    .00000   5.99539     .00000 123.77843   1.00000    14   15   16      4
    16  29.00000  22.42500    .00000   5.99539     .00000 123.77843   1.00000    15   16   17      4
    17  25.66667  27.40833    .00000   5.99539     .00000 123.77843   1.00000    16   17    0      4
    18  42.33334  -2.49167    .00000   5.99539     .00000-123.77841   1.00000     7   18   19      5
    19  39.00000  -7.47500    .00000   5.99539     .00000-123.77841   1.00000    18   19   20      5
    20  35.66667 -12.45833    .00000   5.99539     .00000-123.77841   1.00000    19   20   21      5
    21  32.33334 -17.44167    .00000   5.99539     .00000-123.77843   1.00000    20   21   22      5
    22  29.00000 -22.42500    .00000   5.99539     .00000-123.77843   1.00000    21   22   23      5
    23  25.66667 -27.40833    .00000   5.99539     .00000-123.77843   1.00000    22   23    0      5
    24   5.00000   2.82500    .00000   5.99354     .00000 109.49310   1.00000   -26   24   25      6
    25   3.00000   8.47500    .00000   5.99354     .00000 109.49310   1.00000    24   25    0      6
    26   5.00000  -2.82500    .00000   5.99354     .00000-109.49310   1.00000   -28   26   27      7
    27   3.00000  -8.47500    .00000   5.99354     .00000-109.49310   1.00000    26   27    0      7
    28   5.00000    .00000   2.50000   5.38516   68.19859 180.00000   1.00000     1   28   29      8
    29   3.00000    .00000   7.50000   5.38516   68.19859 180.00000   1.00000    28   29    0      8






 ***** DATA CARD NO.  1   FR   0     1     0     0  3.00000E+00  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  2   EX   1     1     1     0  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  3   RP   0     1     1  1000  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01




                                 - - - - - - FREQUENCY - - - - - -

                                    FREQUENCY= 3.0000E+00 MHZ
                                    WAVELENGTH= 9.9933E+01 METERS




                    APPROXIMATE INTEGRATION EMPLOYED FOR SEGMENTS MORE THAN   1.000 WAVELENGTHS APART



                               - - - STRUCTURE IMPEDANCE LOADING - - -

                                   THIS STRUCTURE IS NOT LOADED



                                  - - - ANTENNA ENVIRONMENT - - -

                                            FREE SPACE



                                - - - MATRIX TIMING - - -

                        FILL=     .000 SEC.,  FACTOR=     .000 SEC.



                                        - - - EXCITATION - - -

    PLANE WAVE    THETA=    .00 DEG,  PHI=    .00 DEG,  ETA=    .00 DEG,  TYPE -LINEAR=  AXIAL RATIO=  .000



                             - - - CURRENTS AND LOCATION - - -

                                 DISTANCES IN WAVELENGTHS


  SEG.  TAG    COORD. OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.            - - - CURRENT (AMPS) - - -
  NO.   NO.     X        Y        Z      LENGTH     REAL        IMAG.       MAG.        PHASE
     1    1    .0300    .0000    .0000   .06004   1.4998E-03  4.6949E-03  4.9286E-03   72.284
     2    2    .0917    .0000    .0000   .06338   3.2097E-02 -1.7023E-02  3.6332E-02  -27.939
     3    2    .1551    .0000    .0000   .06338   3.7967E-02 -3.1079E-02  4.9065E-02  -39.303
     4    2    .2185    .0000    .0000   .06338   4.4300E-02 -4.9461E-02  6.6399E-02  -48.151
     5    2    .2819    .0000    .0000   .06338   4.9342E-02 -6.7069E-02  8.3264E-02  -53.658
     6    2    .3452    .0000    .0000   .06338   5.2034E-02 -7.9829E-02  9.5290E-02  -56.903
     7    2    .4086    .0000    .0000   .06338   5.1637E-02 -8.4841E-02  9.9319E-02  -58.674
     8    3    .4703    .0000    .0000   .06004   2.0877E-01 -2.0895E-01  2.9537E-01  -45.025
     9    3    .5304    .0000    .0000   .06004   1.7843E-01 -1.7850E-01  2.5239E-01  -45.010
    10    3    .5904    .0000    .0000   .06004   1.2813E-01 -1.2752E-01  1.8077E-01  -44.865
    11    3    .6504    .0000    .0000   .06004   5.9205E-02 -5.8276E-02  8.3074E-02  -44.547
    12    4    .4236    .0249    .0000   .05999  -8.3232E-02  6.6192E-02  1.0634E-01  141.506
    13    4    .3903    .0748    .0000   .05999  -8.3105E-02  6.5612E-02  1.0588E-01  141.709
    14    4    .3569    .1247    .0000   .05999  -7.6168E-02  5.8725E-02  9.6178E-02  142.368
    15    4    .3235    .1745    .0000   .05999  -6.2518E-02  4.6263E-02  7.7773E-02  143.499
    16    4    .2902    .2244    .0000   .05999  -4.3490E-02  3.0212E-02  5.2954E-02  145.212
    17    4    .2568    .2743    .0000   .05999  -1.9544E-02  1.2375E-02  2.3132E-02  147.657
    18    5    .4236   -.0249    .0000   .05999  -8.3232E-02  6.6192E-02  1.0634E-01  141.506
    19    5    .3903   -.0748    .0000   .05999  -8.3105E-02  6.5612E-02  1.0588E-01  141.709
    20    5    .3569   -.1247    .0000   .05999  -7.6167E-02  5.8725E-02  9.6178E-02  142.368
    21    5    .3235   -.1745    .0000   .05999  -6.2517E-02  4.6263E-02  7.7773E-02  143.499
    22    5    .2902   -.2244    .0000   .05999  -4.3489E-02  3.0212E-02  5.2954E-02  145.212
    23    5    .2568   -.2743    .0000   .05999  -1.9544E-02  1.2375E-02  2.3132E-02  147.657
    24    6    .0500    .0283    .0000   .05998  -1.0118E-02  5.2357E-03  1.1393E-02  152.641
    25    6    .0300    .0848    .0000   .05998  -4.6178E-03  1.7838E-03  4.9503E-03  158.879
    26    7    .0500   -.0283    .0000   .05998  -1.0118E-02  5.2356E-03  1.1393E-02  152.641
    27    7    .0300   -.0848    .0000   .05998  -4.6178E-03  1.7838E-03  4.9503E-03  158.879
    28    8    .0500    .0000    .0250   .05389  -5.2942E-03  5.3453E-03  7.5234E-03  134.725
    29    8    .0300    .0000    .0751   .05389  -1.5854E-03  2.0520E-03  2.5931E-03  127.691



                                                - - - RADIATION PATTERNS - - -

  - - ANGLES - -           - POWER GAINS -       - - - POLARIZATION - - -    - - - E(THETA) - - -    - - - E(PHI) - - -
  THETA     PHI        VERT.   HOR.    TOTAL      AXIAL     TILT   SENSE     MAGNITUDE    PHASE     MAGNITUDE    PHASE
 DEGREES  DEGREES       DB      DB      DB        RATIO     DEG.              VOLTS/M    DEGREES      VOLTS/M    DEGREES
     .00      .00      -2.98 -134.64   -2.98    0.00000     0.00  LINEAR    2.00019E+01  -133.97    5.22797E-06    78.18






 ***** DATA CARD NO.  4   EX   1     1     1     0  9.00000E+01  3.00000E+01 -9.00000E+01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01
 ***** DATA CARD NO.  5   RP   0     1     1  1000  9.00000E+01  3.00000E+01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01



                                        - - - EXCITATION - - -

    PLANE WAVE    THETA=  90.00 DEG,  PHI=  30.00 DEG,  ETA= -90.00 DEG,  TYPE -LINEAR=  AXIAL RATIO=  .000



                             - - - CURRENTS AND LOCATION - - -

                                 DISTANCES IN WAVELENGTHS


  SEG.  TAG    COORD. OF SEG. CENTER     SEG.            - - - CURRENT (AMPS) - - -
  NO.   NO.     X        Y        Z      LENGTH     REAL        IMAG.       MAG.        PHASE
     1    1    .0300    .0000    .0000   .06004   2.1951E-03  3.6163E-03  4.2304E-03   58.741
     2    2    .0917    .0000    .0000   .06338   6.5448E-03  3.5229E-03  7.4327E-03   28.292
     3    2    .1551    .0000    .0000   .06338   7.4389E-03 -5.7723E-03  9.4158E-03  -37.810
     4    2    .2185    .0000    .0000   .06338   9.8856E-03 -1.9791E-02  2.2123E-02  -63.458
     5    2    .2819    .0000    .0000   .06338   1.4293E-02 -3.5271E-02  3.8057E-02  -67.941
     6    2    .3452    .0000    .0000   .06338   2.0095E-02 -4.8858E-02  5.2829E-02  -67.643
     7    2    .4086    .0000    .0000   .06338   2.5574E-02 -5.7699E-02  6.3113E-02  -66.095
     8    3    .4703    .0000    .0000   .06004  -3.8608E-02  1.5511E-01  1.5984E-01  103.977
     9    3    .5304    .0000    .0000   .06004  -2.7542E-02  1.3176E-01  1.3460E-01  101.807
    10    3    .5904    .0000    .0000   .06004  -1.4290E-02  9.3988E-02  9.5068E-02   98.645
    11    3    .6504    .0000    .0000   .06004  -3.4927E-03  4.3257E-02  4.3398E-02   94.616
    12    4    .4236    .0249    .0000   .05999  -2.3663E-02 -2.1177E-01  2.1309E-01  -96.376
    13    4    .3903    .0748    .0000   .05999  -1.6403E-02 -2.0488E-01  2.0554E-01  -94.577
    14    4    .3569    .1247    .0000   .05999  -7.9417E-03 -1.8318E-01  1.8335E-01  -92.483
    15    4    .3235    .1745    .0000   .05999  -3.7479E-04 -1.4723E-01  1.4723E-01  -90.146
    16    4    .2902    .2244    .0000   .05999   4.5369E-03 -1.0032E-01  1.0042E-01  -87.411
    17    4    .2568    .2743    .0000   .05999   4.5311E-03 -4.4057E-02  4.4289E-02  -84.128
    18    5    .4236   -.0249    .0000   .05999   9.4628E-02 -8.9035E-03  9.5046E-02   -5.375
    19    5    .3903   -.0748    .0000   .05999   9.3141E-02 -9.9663E-03  9.3673E-02   -6.108
    20    5    .3569   -.1247    .0000   .05999   8.5085E-02 -7.7993E-03  8.5442E-02   -5.237
    21    5    .3235   -.1745    .0000   .05999   7.0545E-02 -3.6568E-03  7.0639E-02   -2.967
    22    5    .2902   -.2244    .0000   .05999   5.0363E-02  3.7764E-04  5.0364E-02     .430
    23    5    .2568   -.2743    .0000   .05999   2.3641E-02  1.8773E-03  2.3715E-02    4.540
    24    6    .0500    .0283    .0000   .05998   1.1756E-02 -3.7554E-02  3.9351E-02  -72.617
    25    6    .0300    .0848    .0000   .05998   7.3151E-03 -2.2549E-02  2.3706E-02  -72.026
    26    7    .0500   -.0283    .0000   .05998  -1.0447E-02  3.6781E-02  3.8236E-02  105.856
    27    7    .0300   -.0848    .0000   .05998  -4.9516E-03  2.0995E-02  2.1571E-02  103.270
    28    8    .0500    .0000    .0250   .05389  -4.6027E-03 -1.6751E-03  4.8981E-03 -160.001
    29    8    .0300    .0000    .0751   .05389  -2.6265E-03 -1.6650E-03  3.1098E-03 -147.629



                                                - - - RADIATION PATTERNS - - -

  - - ANGLES - -           - POWER GAINS -       - - - POLARIZATION - - -    - - - E(THETA) - - -    - - - E(PHI) - - -
  THETA     PHI        VERT.   HOR.    TOTAL      AXIAL     TILT   SENSE     MAGNITUDE    PHASE     MAGNITUDE    PHASE
 DEGREES  DEGREES       DB      DB      DB        RATIO     DEG.              VOLTS/M    DEGREES      VOLTS/M    DEGREES
   90.00    30.00     -51.77   -9.79   -9.79     .00000    89.54  LINEAR    7.27501E-02   -52.29    9.13410E+00   -52.98






 ***** DATA CARD NO.  6   EN   0     0     0     0  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01  0.00000E-01

 RUN TIME =      .000

V.  Execution Time

The program execution time depends on the number of patches and the number
of wire segments used. The central processor time approximately follows the
formula:
T=
     T1 + T2 + T3+ T4
     T1=(A1kNs2 + A2kNs2 + A3kNsNp + A4Nc)/M,
     T2=B(Ns + 2Np)3/M2,
     T3=CNs +2Np)2/M ,
     T4=DkNf(Ns+2Np),
where
     Ns= number of wire segments,
     Np=number of surface Patches,
     Nc=number of connections between a wire and surface,
     Ne= number of different excitations,
     Nf= number of far-field calculation points
     M=number of degrees of symmetry,
k=
     1 for structure in free space,
     2 for perfect ground of reflection coefficient approximation, and
     4 for Sommerfeld/Norton method. T1 is the time to fill the interaction
     matrix; T2 is the time to factor the matrix; T3 is the time to solve
     for the currents for all excitations; and T4 is the time to calculate
     far fields.
     The proportionality factors depend on the computer system on which the
     program is run. The factors in seconds for a CDC 7600 computer when the
     matrix fits in core are roughly
     A1= 3.(10-4),
     A2= 5.(10-5),
     A3= 5.(10-4),
     A4= 2.(10-2),
     B= 2.(10-6),
     C= 4.(10-6), and
     D= 6.(10-5), When the extended thin-wire kernel is used, A1 is
     increased by about 18 percent. If the approximation for large
     interaction distances is used with RKH=Ro, then A1 is multiplied by (1
     - 0.7F) where F is the faction of all segment pairs for which the
     separation is grater than Ro.
     Unless a large number of excitations or far fields are requested, T1
     and T2 will account for nearly all of the running time. If the matrix
     does not fit in core storage, T1 and T2 will be larger than indicated
     above. They may be much larger if I/O time is included.
     The code SOMNEC requires about 15 sec to write the Summerfeld/Norton
     data file on a CDC 7600 computer.

Benchmark Times on Various Platforms
(This subsection was not part of the original NEC-2 manual.)
Here's a compilation of NEC-4.1 and NEC-2 performance on various
PC platforms.  This may be of interest to NEC users...  I find
NEC-4.1 a good way to benchmark PCs for real world use!
Larry, WA6JYJ/7
laitinen@eshop.uoregon.edu

                                                             Rev:  8-NOV-95

    PC PROCESSOR AND MOTHERBOARD BENCHMARKS USING THE NEC4.1 AND NEC2
                METHOD OF MOMENTS ANTENNA ANALYSIS CODES

  NEC4.1 and NEC2 double precision Method of Moments antenna analysis
  codes were used to compare the performance of various 80x86 CPU chips
  and motherboards.  A center fed half-wave dipole antenna was analyzed
  with 299 segments.  The total execution and the impedance matrix fill
  and factor times reported by NEC are shown in the following two tables.


  A.  NEC4.1 EXECUTION TIMES IN SECONDS FOR THE TEST299.NEC INPUT FILE.

          CPU/MOTHERBOARD            CACHE    RAM   MATRIX   MATRIX    TOTAL
                                                     FILL    FACTOR    EXEC

      1.  Pentium 120-MHz            256KB    32MB   14.07     7.88    22.75
          Gigabyte/Intel Triton      PBURST   FPM
      2.  Pentium 100-MHz Triton     512KB    16MB   15.87     8.53    25.15
          Super Micro P55CMS         PBURST   EDO
      3.  Pentium 100-MHz            256KB    32MB   15.96     8.73    25.45
          Gigabyte/Intel Triton      PBURST   FPM
      4.  Pentium 100-MHz Triton     512KB    64MB   16.12     8.63    25.50
          Super Micro P55CMS         PBURST   FPM
      5.  Pentium 100-MHz Triton     256KB    64MB   16.22     8.93    25.85
          Micronics M54Hi PCI/ISA    PBURST   FPM
      6.  Pentium 120-MHz            256KB    32MB   15.42    10.18    26.40
          Gigabyte/Intel Triton      SRAM     FPM
      7.  Pentium 100-MHz            256KB    16MB   16.97     9.58    27.30
          Intel P54C-PCI/Neptune     SRAM     FPM
      8.  Pentium 90-MHz             256KB    32MB   17.71     9.73    28.49
          Gigabyte/Intel Triton      PBURST   FPM
      9.  Pentium 100-MHz            256KB    32MB   17.16    10.77    28.69
          Gigabyte/Intel Triton      SRAM     FPM
     10.  Pentium 90-MHz             256KB    32MB   18.76    10.57    30.19
          Dell/Intel Neptune?        SRAM     FPM
     11.  Pentium 90-MHz             256KB    16MB   18.80    10.60    30.23
          Intel P54C-PCI/Neptune     SRAM     FPM
     12.  Pentium 90-MHz             256KB    32MB   18.91    11.97    31.78
          Gigabyte/Intel Triton      SRAM     FPM
     13.  Pentium 60-MHz             256KB    16MB   27.09    16.92    45.16
          Dell system                SRAM     FPM
     14.  Pentium 75-MHz             256KB    8MB    29.89    15.02    48.35*
          Gateway-2000 P5-75         SRAM     FPM
     15.  Intel 80486DX4-100         256KB    16MB   32.59    21.16    55.38
          Gigabyte PCI "AM" MB       SRAM     FPM    (memory = 0-wait state)
     16.  Intel 80486DX4-100         256KB    16MB   33.08    23.50    58.33
          Gigabyte PCI "AM" MB       SRAM     FPM    (memory = 1-wait state)
     17.  AMD AM486DX4-100           256KB    16MB   36.63    22.26    60.53
          Gigabyte PCI "AM" MB       SRAM     FPM    (memory = 0-wait state)
     18.  AMD AM486DX4-100           256KB    16MB   40.36    24.96    67.06
          Gigabyte PCI "AM" MB       SRAM     FPM    (memory = 1-wait state)
     19.  Intel 80486DX2-66          512KB    16MB   56.29    32.78    93.01
          Gigabyte EISA MB           SRAM     FPM

  B.  NEC2 EXECUTION TIMES IN INTEGER SECONDS FOR THE TEST299.NEC INPUT FILE.

      Although the NEC2 fill, factor and execution times are less precise
      than those in NEC4.1, they are included here because NEC2 is more
      widely distributed than NEC4.1.  Further, some configurations tested
      here were not tested under NEC4.1.

          CPU/MOTHERBOARD            CACHE     RAM    MATRIX   MATRIX    TOTAL
                                                       FILL    FACTOR    EXEC

      1.  Pentium 120-MHz            256KB     32MB     11       11       22
          Gigabyte/Intel Triton      PBURST    FPM
      2.  Pentium 120-MHz            256KB     32MB     13       12       25
          Gigabyte/Intel Triton      SRAM      FPM
      3.  Pentium 100-MHz            256KB     32MB     13       12       25
          Gigabyte/Intel Triton      PBURST    FPM
      4.  Pentium 100-MHz            256KB     16MB     13       13       27
          Intel P54C-PCI/Neptune     SRAM      FPM
      5.  Pentium 100-MHz            256KB     32MB     14       14       28
          Gigabyte/Intel Triton      SRAM      FPM
      6.  Pentium 90-MHz             256KB     32MB     15       13       28
          Gigabyte/Intel Triton      PBURST    FPM
      7.  Pentium 90-MHz             256KB     16MB     15       14       29
          Intel P54C-PCI/Neptune     SRAM      FPM
      8.  Pentium 90-MHz             256KB     16MB     15       17       32
          Intel ZAPPA/Triton         SRAM      FPM
      9.  Pentium 90-MHz             256KB     32MB     15       16       31
          Gigabyte/Intel Triton      SRAM      FPM
     10.  Pentium 75-MHz             256KB     8MB      18       21       40*
          Gateway-2000 P5-75         SRAM      FPM
     11.  Intel 80486DX4-100         256KB     16MB     32       25       57
          Gigabyte PCI "AM" MB       SRAM      FPM
     12.  Intel 80486DX2-66          512KB     16MB     49       38       88
          Gigabyte EISA MB           SRAM      FPM

     NOTES:  FPM = Fast Page Mode;   PBURST = Pipeline Burst cache;
             EDO = Extended Data Output;  SRAM = Static RAM cache
             *Only 8-MB of RAM may adversely affect the performance of the
              Gateway-2000 P5-75 system.

             NEC2 and NEC4.1 are double precision Method of Moments antenna
             analysis codes using 32-bit DOS extenders.   The codes used
             herein do NOT take advantage of the Pentium's pipeline
             architecture.  Compilers generating Pentium optimized code are
             expected to speed up the matrix factorization by 50 to 100%.

             Motherboard costs (w/o CPU) are as follows:  Micronics $540,
             Intel P54C-PCI (Premiere-II/Neptune/Plato) $178, Super Micro
             P55CMS $420 (approx), Gigabyte GA-586AT (256KB Pburst cache)
             $240, and Gigabyte PCI 80486AM $123.  Intel Pentium CPU prices
             have decreased significantly since Aug 95.
  C.  “TEST299” Benchmark Input Data File

      David Pinion, P.E., submitted the following  NEC "card deck" input data
      used in these tests:

      CE CENTER FED HORIZONTAL HALF-WAVE DIPOLE OVER EXCELLENT GROUND.
      GW 1,299,-139.,0, 6.,+139.,0, 6., .001,
      GE 0,
      GN 1,
      FR 0,0,0,0, 0.54,
      EX 0, 1,150,0,1., 0.,
      RP 1, 1, 1,0000, 1.5, 0., 0., 0., 1000.,
      EN
      VI. Differences Between NEC-2, NEC-1, and AMP2

The following are features of the NEC-1 code that differ from AMP2:
   * A new current expansion is used with continuous current and current
     derivative along wires. The expansion enforces a new condition at
     multiple-wire junctions and allows for current flowing onto the end cap
     at an open wire end
   * Where a wire connects to a surface, the surface-current expansion is
     related to the current at the base of the wire rather than at the
     center of the last wire segment.
   * An optional voltage source based on a discontinuity in current slope is
     available.
   * In the thin-wire approximation, the current filament is on the wire
     axis and the observation points are on the surface.
   * An optional extended thin-wire approximation is available.
   * Either a perfectly or imperfectly conducting ground may be used with
     surface patches.
   * Either a perfect or imperfect ground may be used in incident plane
     wave.
   * Some constants have been changed including the velocity of light
     (2.998*108 m/sec.) and the default frequency (299.8 MHz)
   * The wire-segment connection numbers have new meanings.
   * The radiated field is the field at a range R multiplied by R with R
     approaching infinity. In AMP and AMP2, the field is multiplied by
     R/lambda).
   * Both near electric and magnetic fields may be computed. The NF card is
     no longer used.
   * Charge density may be printed for wires.
   * The PT card is no longer canceled by a new EX card.

The following are features of NEC-2 that differ from NEC-1:
   * The NGF option has been added.
   * The restart option has been removed.
   * The Sommerfeld/Norton method has been added.
   * Maximum coupling between antennas may be computed.
   * wires may have tapered radius and segment lengths
   * Patches may be specified as triangles, rectangles, or quadrangles.
   * Rectangular surfaces with multiple patches may be specified.
   * The SS card for surfaces has been eliminated.
Section VII - File Storage Requirements

Depending on the requirements of a run, NEC-2 may use the following files.

     11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 - scratch files for matrix manipulations.
     20 - NGF file
     21 - Sommerfeld/Norton data.

The scratch files are used only when the matrix will not fit into core
storage. For a case that does not use the NGF (but may write a NGF file),
there are five options for matrix storage. IF

     N = the number of equations (number of segments plus twice the number
     of patches),
     Nx = the number of equations for a symmetric section, and
     IR = number of complex numbers for the matrix in core storage (4000),

then the case, indicated by the value of ICASE in the code, are

  1. matrix in core, no symmetry (N2 <= IR).
  2. matrix in core, symmetry (NNx <= IR).
  3. matrix in core, no symmetry (N2 >= IR).
  4. matrix in core, symmetry blocks fit in core (NNx > IR, Nx2<= IR).
  5. matrix out of core, symmetry blocks do not fit in core Nx2>IR).

File storage is used in cases 3,4 and 5. Only the four files (11,12,13 and
14) are used when the NGF is not in use. The size of each file is
approximately [?]NNx words. If the computer system requires that the user
specify the file size, a safety margin should be included in the request. A
more accurate estimate of the file size is

     L=2NNc[Nx/Nc],

Where

     Nc= [IR)/(2N)]

and [ ] indicates truncation. Nc, which is the number of matrix columns in
I/O block, must be at least 1.

When the NGF is used, all six scratch files may be required. For the NGF the
matrix is partitioned into four sections as

 

A is the matrix for the NGF structure and is factored before the NGF file is
written. The storage case for A is indicated in the NGF table by the value of
ICASE (see example 10 in section IV). When the NGF is used, matrix A is read
from file 20 and, if ICASE is 3,4, or 5, is stored on file 13. The size of
file 13 when the NGF is used is approximately:

   ICASE            Length of file 13
       3                4N2
       4                2NNx
       5                4NNx

There are four options for storage of the matrices B, C, and D. these are
associated with the integer ICASE as follows:
ICASE

  1. AR, B, C, and D fit in core together where
     AR = A for ICASE =1 or 2,
     = one I/O block of A for ICASE = 3 or 5,
     = one submatrix for ICASE = 4
  2. B, C, and D fit in core but not with AR. This is possible only for
     ICASE =3, 4, or 5 when A does not need dedicated space in core. AR an
     dB must also fit in core together.
  3. B, C, and D do not fit in core, but D fits in core alone.
     A and D must fit together if ICASE = 1 or 2.
  4. D does not fit in core.

The sizes of matrices B, C, and D depend on the number of new unknowns Nn
where

Nn=Nn+Nt+2Np+10Nq
     Ns = number of new segments added to NGF,
     Nt = number of NGF segments connected to new segments or patches,
     Np = number of new patches,
     Nq = number of NGF patches connected to new segments.

The sizes of matrices B and C are 2NNn and the size of D is 2Nn2 words. The
file lengths are approximately 2Nn2 words for files 11 and 12 and 2NNn for
files 14, 15 and 16. when ICASE is 1 these files are not used, and when
ICASE is 2 file 16 is not used.

The length of the NGF file (20) is approximately 4N(Nx+3). The length of the
Sommerfeld/Norton data file (21) is about 2200 words.
Section VIII - Error Messages

   1.   CHECK DATA, PARAMETER SPECIFYING SEGMENT POSITION IN A GROUP OF EQUAL
        TAGS CANNOT BE ZERO.
        Routine: ISEGNO
        This error results from an input data error and may occur at any point
        where a tag number is used to identify a segment. Execution terminated.
        Data on the NT, TL, EX, and PT cards should be checked.

   2.   CONNECT - SEGMENT CONNECTION ERROR FOR SEGMENT _.
        Routine: CONNECT
        Possible causes: number of segments at a junction exceeds limit;
        segment lengths are zero; array overflow.

   3.   DATA FAULT ON LOADING CARD NO. =__  ITAG STEP1 =__  IS GREATER THAN
        ITAG STEP2 = __
        Routine: MAIN
        When several segments are loaded, the number of the second segment
        specified must be greater than the number of the first segment.
        Execution terminated.

   4.   EOF ON UNIT __  NBLKS = __  NEOF = __.
        Routine: BLCKIN, entry point of BLCKOT
        An end of file has been encountered while reading data from the unit.
        NBLKS determines how many records are read from the unit.  NEOF is a
        flag to indicate which call to BLCKIN initiated the read.  If NEOF =
        777, this diagnostic is normal and execution will continue.  Otherwise,
        an error is indicated and execution will terminate.

   5.   ERROR - ARC ANGLE EXCEEDS 360. DEGREES
        Routine: ARC
        Error on GA card.

   6.   ERROR - B LESS THAN A IN ROM2
        Routine: ROM2
        Program malfunction.

   7.   ERROR - FR/GN CARD IS NOT ALLOWED WITH N.G.F.
        Routine: Main
        See section III-5.

   8.   ERROR - CORNERS OF QUADRILATERAL PATCH DO NOT LIE IN A PLANE.
        Routine: Patch
        The four corners of a quadrilateral patch (SP card) must lie in a plane.

   9.   ERROR - COUPLING IS NOT BETWEEN 0 AND 1
        Routine: Couple
        Inaccuracy in solution or error in data.

  10.   ERROR - GF MUST BE FIRST GEOMETRY DATA CARD
        Routine: DATAGN
        See section III-5.

  11.   ERROR IN GROUND PARAMETERS - COMPLEX DIELECTRIC CONSTANT FROM FILE
        IS _____  REQUESTED_____.
        Routine: MAIN
        Complex dielectric constant from file TAPE21 does not agree with data
        from GN and FR cards.

  12.   ERROR - INSUFFICIENT STORAGE FOR INTERACTION MATRICES.
        IRESRV, IMAT. NEQ. NEQ2 =
        Routine: FBNGF
        Array storage exceeded in NGF solution.

  13.   ERROR - INSUFFICIENT STORAGE FOR MATRIX
        Routine: FBLOCK
        Array storage for matrix is not sufficient for out-of-core solution.

  14.   ERROR - NETWORK ARRAY DIMENSIONS TOO SMALL.
        Routine: NETWK
        The number of different segments to which transmission lines or network
        ports are connected exceeds array dimensions.  Execution terminated.
        Array size in the original NEC deck is 30.  Refer to array dimension
        limitations in Part II for changing array sizes.

  15.   ERROR - LOADING MAY NOT BE ADDED TO SEGMENTS IN N.G.F. SECTION
        Routine: LOAD
        See section III-5.

  16.   ERROR - N.G.F. IN USE. CANNOT WRITE NEW N.G.F.
        Routine: MAIN

  17.   ERROR - NO. NEW SEGMENTS CONNECTED TO N.G.F. SEGMENTS OR PATCHES
        EXCEEDS LIMIT.
        Routine: CONECT
        Array dimension limit.

  18.   FAULTY DATA CARD LABEL AFTER GEOMETRY SECTION.
        Routine: MAIN
        A card with an unrecognizable mnemonic has been encountered in the
        program control cards following the geometry cards.  Execution
        terminated.

  19.   GEOMETRY DATA CARD ERROR.
        Routine: DATAGN
        A geometry data card was expected, but the card mnemonic is not that
        of a geometry card.  Execution terminated.  After the GE card in a
        data deck, the possible geometry mnemonics are GE, GM, GR, GS, GW,
        GX, SP, and SS.
        The GE card must be used to terminate the geometry cards.

  20.   GEOMETRY DATA ERROR - - PATCH __  LIES IN PLANE OF SYMMETRY.
        Routine: REFLC

  21.   GEOMETRY DATA ERROR - - SEGMENT __  EXTENDS BELOW GROUND,
        Routine: CONECT
        When ground is specified on the GE card, no segment may extend below
        the XY plane.  Execution terminated.

  22.   GEOMETRY DATA ERROR - - SEGMENT __  LIES IN GROUND PLANE.
        Routine: CONECT
        When ground is specified on the GE card, no segment should lie in the
        XY plane.  Execution terminated.

  23.   GEOMETRY DATA ERROR - - SEGMENT __  LIES IN PLANE OF SYMMETRY.
        Routine: REFLC
        A segment may not lie in or cross a plane of symmetry about which the
        structure is reflected since the segment and its image will coincide or
        cross.  Execution terminated.

  24.   IMPROPER LOAD TYPE CHOSEN, REQUESTED TYPE IS __.
        Routine: LOAD
        Valid load types (LDTYP on the LD card) are from 0 through 5.
        Execution terminated.

  25.   INCORRECT LABEL FOR A COMMENT CARD.
        Routine: MAIN
        The program expected a comment card, with mnemonic CM or CE, but
        encountered a different mnemonic.  Execution terminated.  Comment cards
        must be the first cards in a data set, and the comments must be
        terminated by the CE mnemonic.

  26.   LOADING DATA CARD ERROR, NO SEGMENT HAS AN ITAG=__.
        Routine: LOAD
        ITAG specified on an LD card could not be found as a segment tag.
        Execution terminated.

  27.   NO SEGMENT HAS AN ITAG OF __.
        Routine: ISEGNO
        This error results from faulty input data and can occur at any point
        where a tag number is used to identify a segment.  Execution terminated.
        Tag numbers on the NT, TL, EX, CP, PQ, and PT cards should be checked.

  28.   NOTE, SOME OF THE ABOVE SEGMENTS HAVE BEEN LOADED TWICE, IMPEDANCES
        ADDED.
        Routine: LOAD
        A segment or segments have been loaded by two or more LD cards.  The
        impedances of the loads have been added in series.  This is only an
        informative message.  Execution continues.

  29.   NUMBER OF EXCITATION CARDS EXCEEDS STORAGE ALLOTTED.
        Routine: MAIN
        The number of voltage source excitations exceeds array dimensions.
        Execution terminated.  The dimensions in the original NEC deck allow
        10 voltage sources.  Refer to Array Dimension Limitations in Part II
        to change the dimensions.

  30.   NUMBER OF LOADING CARDS EXCEEDS STORAGE ALLOTTED.
        Routine: MAIN
        The number of LD cards exceeds array dimension.  Execution terminated.
        The dimension in the original NEC deck allows 30 LD cards.  Refer to
        Part II to change the dimensions.

  31.   NUMBER OF NETWORK CARDS EXCEEDS STORAGE ALLOTTED.
        Routine: MAIN
        The number of NT and TL cards exceeds array dimension. Execution
        terminated.  The dimension in the original NEC deck allows 30 cards.
        Refer to Array Dimension Limitations in Part II to change the
        dimensions.

  32.   NUMBER OF SEGMENTS IN COUPLING CALCULATION (CP) EXCEEDS LIMIT.
        Routine: MAIN
        Array dimension limit.

  33.   NUMBER OF SEGMENTS AND SURFACE PATCHES EXCEEDS DIMENSION LIMIT.
        Routine: DATAGN
        The sum of the number of segments and patches is limited by dimensions.
        The present limit is 300.

  34.   PATCH DATA ERROR.
        Routine: DATAGN
        Invalid data on SP, SM, or SC card; or SC card not found where required.

  35.   PIVOT(__) = __.
        Routine: FACTR (in-core) or LFACTR  (out-of-core)
        This will be printed during the Gauss Doolittle factoring of the
        interaction matrix or the network matrix when a pivot element less than
        10E-10 is encountered, and indicates that the matrix is nearly singular.
        The number in parentheses shows on which pass through the matrix the
        condition occurred.  This is usually an abnormal condition although
        execution will continue.  It may result from coinciding segments or a
        segment of zero length.

  36.   RADIAL WIRE G.S. APPROXIMATION MAY NOT BE USED WITH SOMMERFELD GROUND
        OPTION.
        Routine: MAIN

  37.   RECEIVING PATTERN STORAGE TOO SMALL, ARRAY TRUNCATED.
        Routine: MAIN
        The number of points requested in a receiving pattern exceeds array
        dimension.  Execution will continue, but storage of normalized pattern
        will be truncated.  This array dimension is 200 in the original NEC
        deck.  Refer to Array Dimension Limitations in Part II to change
        dimension.

  38.   ROM2 - - STEP SIZE LIMITED AT Z =
        Routine: ROM2
        Probably caused by a wire too close to the ground in the Somerfeld/
        Norton ground method.  Execution continues but results may be inaccurate.

  39.   SBF - SEGMENT CONNECTION ERROR FOR SEGMENT__.
        Routine: SBF
        The number of segments at a junction exceeds dimension limit (30), or
        the connection numbers are not self-consistant.

  40.   SEGMENT DATA ERROR.
        Routine: MAIN
        A segment with zero length or zero radius was found.  Execution
        terminated.

  41.   STEP SIZE LIMTED AT Z=__.
        Routine: INTX, HFX
        The numerical integration to compute interaction matrix elements, using
        the Romberg variable interval width method, was limited by the minimum
        allowed step size. Execution will continue. An inaccuracy may occur
        but is usually not serious.  May result from thin wire or wire close
        to the ground.

  42.   STORAGE FOR IMPEDANCE NORMALIZATION TOO SMALL, ARRAY TRUNCATED.
        Routine: MAIN
        The number of frequencies on FR card exceeds the array dimension for
        impedance normalization.  An impedance beyond the limit will not be
        normalized.  Execution continues.  The limit is 50 in the original NEC
        deck.  Refer to Array Dimension Limitations in Part II to change limit.

  43.   SYMMETRY ERROR - NROW, NCOL =
        Routine: FBLOCK
        Array overflow or program malfunction.

  44.   TBF - SEGMENT CONNECTION ERROR FOR SEGMENT _.
        Routine: TBF
        Same as error 39.

  45.   TRIO - SEGMENT CONNECTION ERROR FOR SEGMENT _.
        Routine: TRIO
        Same as error 39.

  46.   WHEN MULTIPLE FREQUENCIES ARE REQUESTED, ONLY ONE NEAR FIELD CARD CAN
        BE USED - LAST CARD READ IS USED.
        Routine: MAIN
        Execution continues.
REFERENCES

  1. Numerical electromagnetics code (NEC-1), Part I: NEC Program
     Description - Theory, to be publicised, Lawrence Livermore Laboratory,
     Livermore, CA. 1977 (content same as NOSC TD 116, Part I)

  2. Numerical electromagnetics code (NEC-1), Part II: NEC Program
     Description - Code, to be publicised, Lawrence Livermore Laboratory,
     Livermore, CA. 1977 (content same as NOSC TD 116, Part II)

  3. Poggio, A.J. and Adam, R. W., Approximations for Terms Related to the
     Kernel in Thin-Wire Integral Equations, Lawerence Livermore Laboratory,
     Livermore, CA. Rept. UCRL-51985, December 19, 1977

  4. Albertsen, N. C., Hansen, J.E., and Jensen, N. E., Computation of
     Space-Lyngby, Denmark, June 1972.

  5. Sengupta, D. L., Electromagnetic and Acoustic Scattering by Simple
     Shapes, Chapter 10, J. J. Bowman, T. B. Asenior and P. L. E. Uslenghi,
     Editors, North-Holland Publishing company, Amsterdam, 1969.
Contributors to the Web Edition of this Manual

I would like to thank the following for helping me put this manual on the
web:

   * Charlie Panek
   * Jay A. Kralovec
   * Bruce Horn
   * Rob Farber
   * Steve Byan
   * Larry Goldstein
   * Dave Waddell
   * Deb Chatterjee
   * Rupert L. Seals
   * Doug Braun

       '''
      (o o)
___ooO-(_)-Ooo________________________________________________________
Peter D. Richeson/KA5COI             |                                |
Email: richesop@matrix.hv.boeing.com | This space for rent.           |
Home:  richesop@traveller.com        |                                |
Phone  (205)461-2603                 |                                |
----------------------------------------------------------------------+
I do not speak for any one but me, and some times not even for me.    |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------



And thanks to everyone from Chuck Counselman, W1HIS, who not only
speaks for no one but also accepts no blame, admits no responsibility,
and deserves no credit for anything.  Nonetheless he wishes to receive
corrections via e-mail, as plain text and/or UUENCODEd or BinHexed
“attached” binary files, including Stuffed (.sit) and/or PGP-enoded
files, at <ccc@space.mit.edu>.  (PGP key on servers.)




The PL command sets flags for writing a predesignated file for plotting.

The Card has the following inputs:

PL I1 I2 I3 I4 F1 F2 F3 F4 F5 F6

where

I1 = data type to be written into auxilliary file
Options:
  = 0 no action
  = 1 Currents
  = 2 Near fields
  = 3 Patterns
  = 4 Impedance, SWR
  = 5 Admittance, SWR

The remaining integers depend on the data type:

a. I1= 1 (Currents)

  I2 = Wire current component format options
     = 0 no action
     = 1 Real and Imaginary
     = 2 Magnitude and Phase

  I3 = Surface patch current component options (all measured in magnitude
and phase)
     = 0 no action
     = 1 Ix
     = 2 Iy
     = 3 Iz
     = 4 Ix,Iy,Iz

b.  I1= 2 (Near Fields)

  I2 = Near field components format options
     = 0 no action
     = 1 Real and Imaginary
     = 2 Magnitude and phase

  I3 = Near field components options
     = 0 no action
     = 1 X component
     = 2 Y component
     = 3 Z component
     = 4 X,Y,Z component
     = 5 Total Field (magnitude only)

  I4 = Coordinate to be stored
     = 1 X-coordinate
     = 2 Y-coordinate
     = 3 Z-coordinate

c.  I1= 3 (Far Field Patterns)

  I2 = Angles to be written into auxilliary file
     = 1 Theta (or Z for RP1)
     = 2 Phi
     = 3 Rho (for RP1)

  I3= Electric Field component (Field components in magnitude and phase)
    = 0 no action
    = 1 Etheta
    = 2 Ephi
    = 3 Erho (for RP1)

  I4 = Power pattern component options
     = 0 no action
     = 1 Vertical gain(dB)
     = 2 Horizontal gain (dB)
     = 3 Total gain (dB)
     = 4 Vertical, Horizontal & Total Gain (dB)

The PL card may be placed anywhere between the GE and XQ commands
A PL card with I1= 0 will suspend any previous PL specs
All the data requested is written out to a file named FOR008.DAT



DATA STORAGE FOR PLOTTING (PL)

Purpose:  The PL command sets flags for writing selected output data
into a predesignated file for later plotting.

Parameters:
Integers
	IPLP1 (I1) - data type to be written into auxilliary file.
		     Options are:
		     IPLP1 = 0	No action
			   = 1	Currents
			   = 2	Near fields
			   = 3	Patterns
			   = 4	Impedance, SWR
			   = 5	Admittance, SWR

	Remaining integers depend on data type.
	  a.  Currents  (IPLP = 1)
		IPLP2 (I2) - Wire current component format options are:
		    IPLP2 = 0	No action
			   = 1	Real and imaginary
			   = 2	Magnitude and phase

		IPLP3 (I3) - Surface patch current components options are:
		    IPLP3 = 0	No action
			   = 1	Ix
			   = 2	Iy
			   = 3	Iz
			   = 4	Ix,Iy,Iz
			   	(All measured in magnitude and phase)

	  b.  Near Fields  (IPLP1 = 2)
		IPLP2 (I2) - Near field components format options are:
		    IPLP2 = 0	No action
			   = 1	Real and imaginary
			   = 2	Magnitude and phase

		IPLP3 (I3) - Near field components options are:
		    IPLP3 = 0	No action
			   = 1	X - component
			   = 2	Y - component
			   = 3	Z - component
			   = 4	X,Y,Z component
			   = 5	Total Field (magnitude only)

		IPLP4 (I4) - Coordinate to be stored options are:
		    IPLP4 = 1	X - coordinate
			   = 2	Y - coordinate
			   = 3	Z - coordinate

	  c.  Far field patterns (IPLP1 = 3)
		IPLP2 (I2) - Angles to be written into auxilliary file options are:
		     IPLP2 = 1	Theta (or Z for RP1)
			   = 2	Phi
			   = 3	Rho (for RP1)

		IPLP3 (I3) - Electric field component options are:
		     IPLP3 = 0	No action
			   = 1	Etheta
			   = 2	Ephi
			   	(Field components in magnitude and phase)
			   = 3	Erho (for RP1)

		IPLP4 (I4) - Power pattern component options are:
		     IPLP4 = 0	No action
			   = 1	Vertical gain (dB)
			   = 2	Horizontal gain (dB)
			   = 3	Total gain (dB)
			   = 4	Vertical, Horizontal & Total Gain (dB)

Notes:
	1. The PL card may be used anywhere between the GE and XQ commands.
	2. A PL card with IPLP = 0 will suspend any previous PL specs.
	3. All the data requested is written out to the a file named F0R008.DAT. 

Use this file to do plotting.


